 1. Глухой межзубный согласный The unvoiced intradental consonant Unvoiced means that the vocal cords do not move as you produce the sound, so голосовые связки не участвуют, there is no voice, нет голоса. Unvoiced intradental consonant согласный It's the unvoiced th sound in words that have the th combination such as think, three and both. In the International Phonetic Alphabet it's denoted by a letter from the Greek alphabet, the lower case theta or theta. So the sound itself is often called the theta phoneme or sound. The proper term for this sound is a voiceless dental fricative. So voiceless is a synonym for unvoiced, means your vocal cords are not used in producing the sound. Dental means that we use our teeth to make the sound, and fricative translates as шелевой into Russian, so it means that there's a very narrow gap through which the air passes and creates this kind of sound. But we're going to remember the colloquial name for this sound, the unvoiced intradental consonant. It's important that it's not voiced, it's unvoiced, that it's intradental, means the tip of your tongue is between the upper and the bottom teeth, and that fact that it's a consonant согласный. Please write down the unvoiced intradental consonant. How do you spell unvoiced? It's u-n-v-o-i-c-e-d. The unvoiced intradental, how do you spell that? It's i-n-t-e-r-d-e-n-t-a-l. Consonant, the spelling is c-o-n-s-o-n-a-n-t. Write down the translation, глухой, межзубный согласный. Write down its other name, the theta phoneme. Theta, how do you spell theta? It's t-h-e-t-a, so that's the name of the Greek letter that is used to denote the sound in transcription. The word phoneme means a sound in phonetics, and how do you spell phoneme? It's p-h-o-n-e-m-e. The theta phoneme. Please write down the following words and expressions that you're going to read out loud on your audio recording. Write down the word something, both, and worth. So three words, something, both, and worth. The spelling of worth is w-o-r-t-h. And then write down an expression, it's worth the effort. Once again, it's worth the effort. Effort is spelled with a double f. It's worth the effort. Pause. Thing. Thumb. Thing. Use this pause to focus on your articulation and making sure that the tip of the tongue is pressed against the upper and bottom teeth. Thumb. Thing. Both. Th. Make sure that you're pronouncing the diphthong o and not substituting it with an o sound. Both. Th. Worth. Th. In the word worth, the o is pronounced as an o sound, as in the past form of the verb to be. So, I was, you were. Were. Th. If you substitute it with an o sound, it's going to sound like war. Why not? We're looking for were. Th. The British do not pronounce the r, so it sounds like were. Th. For now, for most people, it would be a good idea to focus on the British pronunciation so as to avoid rolling your tongue too far back, which is something that we tend to do. As Russian speakers, we end up getting worse. So, keep the tip of your tongue to the front and do not pronounce the r. Were. Th. And then the whole expression. It's worth the effort. The article the is pronounced as the before a vowel and effort starts with the sound e. Worth the effort. Okay, once again. Some. Thing. Both. Th. Were. Th. It's worth the effort. Two. Звонкий, межзубный, согласный. The voiced intradental consonant. Voiced translates as звонкий. It means that the vocal cords take part in producing the sound. Звук произносится с участием голосовых связок. Voiced. Intradental, межзубный, согласный. It's the th sound. In words with the combination of letters th such as that or this. The proper term for this sound is a voiced dental fricative. Fricative meaning шелевой. That there's a narrow gap through which the air passes and creates this kind of sound. The IPA symbol. IPA is the International Phonetic Alphabet. So the IPA symbol for the voiced intradental consonant th is a letter from the old English alphabet. The lower case that letter. Also known as th. Th or that. In the transcription it looks like a Russian print letter. Th with a little line crossing at the top. Please write down the voiced intradental consonant. How do you spell voiced? It's v-o-i-c-e-d. Interdental consonant. The spelling of consonant is c-o-n-s-o-n-a-n-t. The voiced intradental consonant. Write the translation. Write the transcription symbol for the sound. You can use either the slashes. Or you can use the square brackets. And then write down the following words and one expression. So the first word combination is there's a. So it's there, apostrophe s and the article a. How do you spell that? It's t-h-e-r-e, apostrophe s, a. There's a. Be careful when you pronounce this word. Place the tip of your tongue between the upper and the bottom teeth. And pronounce it as one single word. There's a. The next word is with, w-i-t-h. The third word is worthy, the spelling is w-o-r-t-h-y. So the noun and the adjective worth. The th is pronounced as an unvoiced th. But the adjective worthy, the th is pronounced as the voiced the. Worth and worthy. Alright, and finally write down the expression. Look over there. Посмотри туда. So let's go through the pronunciation of this difficult to pronounce expression. Look, the short sound o is pronounced closer to the Russian o sound. Look. Make sure you're pronouncing the diphthong and not substituting it with an o sound. The v sound is where the top of your top teeth are touching the bottom lips. Look over there. Place the tip of your tongue between your upper and bottom teeth there. Look over there. The difficulty is that in the word over to pronounce our usual lip-tooth accent as the third letter of the Russian alphabet. But to go to the intertweezer, pronouncing the last word there. Very often it happens that we try to pronounce this word quickly and it gets confused. Once again. Look over there. Look over there. Once again. When pronouncing these words, focus on the intradental the as well as the labial w. Make sure it's just your lips and that your upper teeth are not touching your bottom lip. Верхние зубы не касаются нижней губы при произнесении w. In with and worthy. So once again. There the w with the w. Worthy. Remember it's the o sound as in the past form of the verb to be. W and not war. Worthy. Look over there. Look over there.
 3. Глагол охарактеризовать, описать, однокоренное существительное описание и однокоренное прилагательное описательное. Listen and repeat. To describe, to describe. This is a verb, глагол. The noun существительное is a description. Description and the adjective прилагательное is descriptive. Descriptive. To describe means to say what someone or something is like. Some good synonyms for describe are to tell, to explain, to show, to portray, to depict and to illustrate. A description is a way of telling what something or someone is like. In other words, it's an explanation or a depiction. And the adjective descriptive means giving details about what something or someone is like. And some good synonyms for descriptive are detailed, explicit and vivid. So a popular type of speaking task on language exams is to briefly describe two images or photos, noting the differences. Please write down the noun description. How do you spell that? It's D-E-S-C-R-I-P-T-I-O-N. And write the translation. We use expressions of speculation to give our interpretation of what we see in an image when we describe it. These expressions enrich our response, allowing for a greater variety of grammatical structures to talk about the image. Expressions of speculation include adverbs such as perhaps, most likely, apparently. Some expressions with modal verbs such as it might be that or it could be that, they might have been or they must have been, they must have. And other expressions such as it seems like, it looks like, it appears that, and it looks as if or it looks as though. So you do not need to write anything for number four, but you will need to learn some expressions of speculation to use in your response when giving a description of an image or a photo. So the following four vocabulary items, numbers five, six, seven, and eight are all expressions of speculation. Listen and repeat. Perhaps. Perhaps is an adverb. Some good synonyms for perhaps are maybe, it might be that, it could be that. Here's an example. Apparently the lady by the white board is explaining something. Perhaps she's pointing out the differences between the cultures represented by the flags depicted on the board. Please write down the word perhaps. How do you spell perhaps? It's spelled as p-e-r-h-a-p-s. Perhaps. And write down the translation. Listen and repeat. Likely. Likely can be either an adjective or an adverb. Very likely or highly likely, which invariantly is an adjective. Most likely functions as an adverb. And the opposite of likely is unlikely, which is an adjective. The noun is the likelihood. Likelyhood. Note the short o in hood. Likelyhood. The likelihood of something happening. The word likely means that something is expected to happen. Some good synonyms are probable. Very likely or highly likely is synonymous with highly probable or almost certain. Most likely is synonymous with very probably. And unlikely means that something is not expected to happen. It's improbable or doubtful. The noun likelihood means the chance that something will happen. In other words, the probability, the possibility, or the odds of something happening. The odds or the prospect of something happening. Here are some examples. A dog out for a walk after the lesson. Please write down most likely. How do you spell likely? It's l-i-k-e-l-y. Most likely. Write down the translation. The most likely is the most likely. Apparently, they are discussing something. Just listen. Apparently, they're having a discussion. Now listen and repeat. Apparently, they're having a discussion. Another way of wording this is to say they seem to be discussing something. Apparently, they're having a discussion about their project. Please write down this whole expression. Apparently, they're having a discussion. How do you spell apparently? It's a-p-a-r-e-n-t-l-y. Let's make it a sentence. So capitalize the a. Apparently, they're having a discussion. How do you spell discussion? It's spelled d-i-s-c-u-s-i-o-n. Apparently, they're having a discussion. Write the translation for apparently and discussion. Eight. It seems like they're discussing something. Listen and repeat. It seems like they're discussing something. Watch your intrudentals and let's do the other variant. It seems that they're discussing something. It seems that or it seems like is an expression that of speculation that's used when something appears to be true but you're not sure. Some synonymous expressions are it seems that or it seems like is an expression that of speculation that's used when something appears to be true but you're not sure. Some synonymous expressions are it looks like, it looks as if or it looks as though, it appears that apparently, evidently, presumably. Here's an example. It seems like they're discussing schoolwork, their project perhaps. It looks like they're discussing their project. It appears that they're discussing some schoolwork. Apparently, they're talking about their project. Please write down the expression it seems like or that. It seems, how do you spell seems? It's s-e-m-s, like, slash, that. So you can say it seems like or it seems that. Write the translation.
 Nine. Времена глаголов. Verb tenses. Verb tenses are forms of verbs that show time of action, they're grammatical tenses. Use various tenses to make guesses about what has happened earlier and what's going to happen next. Use the present perfect to talk about something that's happened before the scene depicted in the photo. And use be going to to talk about what's going to happen next, what might happen next. For example, the photo shows a young lady at her desk in front of a laptop. It looks like she's having an online lesson. Most likely, she's just finished her lesson. She has just finished her lesson. So we're using the present perfect to talk about what has happened earlier. So she's just finished her lesson because she has her hand up as if to wave goodbye. Her pet dog is keeping her company and waiting patiently for her to finish. Perhaps the young lady is going to take her dog out for a walk after the lesson. She's going to take her dog out. So we're using the be going to structure to talk about something that will happen next or that might happen. Please write down verb tenses. The spelling of verb is V-E-R-B. And how do you spell tenses? It's T-E-N-S-E-S. Verb tenses. Write down the translation. Ten. Они только что закончили работу. Он или она только что завершил урок. Listen. They've just finished working. Они только что завершили работу. Listen and repeat. Watch your interdentals. They've. They've is they have. They've just finished working. This is the present perfect form to talk about something that has happened earlier. And the other sentence. She's just finished her lesson. She's is she has. So make sure that the sh you're pronouncing the sh softly as she she's. She's just finished her lesson. Again, this is the present perfect form of a verb used to describe an action that has happened prior to or before the moment captured in the photo. Here's an example. The photo shows a young lady having an online lesson at home. It looks like she's just started or finished her lesson because she has her hand up as if to wave either hello or goodbye. Please write down the formula for the present perfect. So write the present perfect and the formula, which is have or has plus V3. V3 is the third form of the verb, also known as the past participle. Let's write down the expression. Они только что вышли. They've just gone out. They've just gone out. They've just gone out. Она или он только что вышла или вышел. She's just gone out. She's just gone out. 11. После этого они, возможно, займутся практикой устой речием. После урока он или она, возможно, пойдет на прогулку с питомцем. Okay, so the first sentence. After that, they might have a speaking practice session. Listen and repeat. After that, watch your interdentals. They might have a speaking practice session. After that, they might have a speaking practice session. And the second sentence. После урока он или она, возможно, пойдет на прогулку с питомцем. After the lesson, he or she might take his or her pet dog out for a walk. Listen and repeat. After the lesson, she might take her pet dog out for a walk. After the lesson, she might take her pet dog out for a walk. Some synonymous expressions to they might or he or she might are They may, so next they may do something, next they may have a speaking practice session, or could. Next, she could do something. Next, she could take her pet dog out for a walk. Next, he could go out to have dinner with family. The photo shows a young lady at her desk in front of a laptop. She might be having an online lesson. She must be at home because her pet dog is keeping her company and waiting patiently for her to finish. The lesson must have just finished because she has her hand up as if to wave goodbye. After the lesson, the young lady might take her dog out for a walk. Modal verbs Modal verbs are verbs which are used with another verb to express degrees of certainty and necessity. Степень уверенности и необходимости There are nine core or nine pure modal verbs. You need to remember these. They are can, could, shall, should, will, would, may, might, and must. Use modal verbs and expressions when describing an image to make guesses about what you see depicted in the image. This makes your image description stronger and allows for various interpretations. For example, the young man might be having an online lesson, or he could be doing schoolwork or completing a homework assignment and listening to music in his headphones. Please write down core modal verbs. The spelling of core is c-o-r-e. There are nine core modal verbs. Write down these nine modal verbs. Can, could, shall, should, will, would, may, might, m-i-g-h-t Must Thirteen She might be pointing out the differences between the cultures. She might be Listen and repeat She might be pointing out the differences between the cultures. In other words, she may be doing something or she could be doing something. She may be pointing out the differences. She could be pointing out the differences. It looks like the lady by the whiteboard is explaining something. She might be pointing out the differences between cultures since there are two flags drawn on the board. Please write down the expression they might be. They might m-i-g-h-t be. They might be. In parenthesis, write doing something. Write the translation. It is possible that they are doing something. Fifteen It is possible that he or she has just completed the class. Just listen. She or he might have just finished his or her lesson. Might have is might have. Might have. Listen and repeat. She might have just finished her lesson. He might have just finished his lesson. You can also use could or may. She could have done something. He may have done something. The photo shows a young lady having an online lesson at home. She might have just started or finished her lesson because she has her hand up as if to wave either hello or goodbye. Please write down the expression. They might have just done something. Might have. The spelling is m-i-g-h-t apostrophe v-e. So that's might have. But when we speak, we pronounce the contracted form might have. Just. And the third form of a verb. So for example, done. D-o-n-e. They might have done something. Write the translation. It's possible that they have just done something. Sixteen. It's possible that they have been working on the project all this time. Just listen. They might have been working together on a project. Might have is might have been working together on a project. So it's the modal might plus the perfect continuous infinitive have been working or have been doing something. So we use the perfect continuous to show to talk about an action that started in the past and has been continuing up until the present, which means that this whole time they have been working or they have been doing something up until now. And now they've stopped to have a break. The synonymous expressions are could have been doing something, may have been doing something, or perhaps they're they've been doing something. Perhaps he or she's been doing something. So they might have been working on a project. They could have been working on a project. They may have been working on a project. Perhaps they've been working on a project. Use the perfect continuous infinitive with a modal verb to make guesses about what might have been happening earlier. They might have been working on a project together, but now they're taking a break. Please write down the sentence. The sentence. They might have been working on a project. They capital T. This is the first word in the sentence. Might have the spelling is M I G H T apostrophe V E bin B double E N working on a project period. They might have been working on a project. Write the translation. All right, it seems like we've skipped number 14. So let's go back to number 14. Listen and repeat. She must be having a lesson or he must be having a lesson. The modal must in this case has a greater degree of certainty. The modal must in this case has a greater degree of certainty. So in other words, he or she is definitely doing something or most likely he or she is doing something. She's probably doing something, for example, having a lesson. Here's an example. The other image shows a young lady at her desk in front of a laptop. She must be having an online lesson. Her pet dog is keeping her company, so she must be at home. And here's another example. The image is a photo of an in-person group language class. There's a young lady standing by the whiteboard who must be the teacher. Most likely, she's the teacher. Please write down a sentence. They must be working on a project. They, capital T, must be working on a project period. Circle must be and translate. They must be working on a project.
 17. На фотографии и во множественном числе на фотографиях изображены Just listen. The photo shows. This photo shows. These photos show. Let's focus on the pronunciation of these expressions. These seemingly very simple expressions are in fact extremely difficult to pronounce correctly, as there are lots of nuances. Let's talk about these. Let's discuss them. First, it's important to pronounce this and these correctly to distinguish between the singular form for photo, one photo, and the plural for two photos. This is pronounced with a short e and the unvoiced s at the end. Also, remember to focus on the intradental and pronounce it articulately. However, it's the plural form that's most commonly mispronounced. As Russian speakers, we forget to make the e long. In English, some vowels are short, whereas others are long. So in the singular form, it's a short e sound, whereas in the plural form, it's a long e. We need to emphasize this difference. The voiced z at the end. Do not de-voice the z, otherwise it will not sound natural. These. So this and these. The next nuance, the next subtlety is the pronunciation of the diphthong o. There are three o's in a row. We tend to substitute these diphthongs with the o sound, which makes the expression sound unnatural. So remember to pronounce all three diphthongs clearly. The next nuance, the next subtlety is the s at the end of photos in the plural form. We tend to drop the s and not pronounce it, and that's a grammar mistake. So if it's the plural form, these photos, and it's important to pronounce it as a voiced z sound and not to de-voice it, these photos show. And the final nuance is the sh sound, which is closer to the Russian sh rather than sh. Show. Listen and repeat. Let's practice the singular form first. Show. Photo shows. Watch your interdental. This photo shows. Once again, this photo shows. And now the plural form. Show. Photos show. Watch your interdentals. These photos show. Make sure to pronounce these expressions properly on your recording. This photo shows and these photos show. Don't rush, say it slowly, but use correct pronunciation. The anonymous expressions include the image is a photo of. When you're talking about the second image, you can use the word latter. So the former image is the first image that you've mentioned, and the latter image is the second photo that you're talking about. The image is a photo of. The image depicts. The other image depicts. So as to avoid using first or second, it's recommended that we avoid using first and second to talk about the images. So you can use other or latter. The other image depicts. The image renders. With the renders, we usually talk about a particular moment that it renders or it renders a specific kind of atmosphere, like a festive atmosphere, the atmosphere of a holiday and celebration. The image renders a moment when all the students are quiet and they're waiting for the exam to begin, or the image renders the atmosphere of excitement before holiday celebrations. You can also use the word captures, and that's typically also used with to describe a particular moment or an atmosphere. So the photo captures a moment when or the photo captures the atmosphere of the atmosphere of excitement. This photo shows a young lady having an online lesson at home. The snapshot renders a moment when she has her hand up as if to wave hello or goodbye. So this must be either the beginning or the end of her lesson. Please write down two expressions. This photo shows. And on the next line, write these, T-H-E-S-E, photos show. Get three different markers or different color pens. Use one color to circle or highlight the intrudentals in this and these. Use another marker to circle or highlight the sounds at the end of shows. These and photos. So the voiced Z shows in the singular form. These in the plural form and photos in the plural form. The third use the third color to highlight the diphthongs in photo and photos. Oh, oh, and in shows or show. So highlight all of the diphthongs. You should highlight six parts, six. Six. So the O and the O in photo in the singular form, the O in shows. And then in the plural form, the O, the two O's in photos and the O in show. Also remember to pronounce clearly the short vowel E in this and the long E in these. And make the sh softer. Shows or show. All right, let's move on. Number 18. Изображать, показывать глагол и одно коренное существительное изображение. To depict. Please repeat. To depict. This is a verb and the noun is a depiction. A depiction. To depict means to represent or show something in a picture. And the noun depiction means the way that something is represented or shown. It's an image or a picture of something. For example, the other image depicts a young woman having an online lesson at home. The snapshot depicts a moment when she has her hand up as if to wave hello or goodbye.
 19. На фото девушка, молодая женщина, юноша или молодой человек. Just listen first. There's a young lady in the photo or there's a young man in the photo. Listen and repeat. Focus on the intradental. Pronounce it as one whole word. There's a young lady. There's a young woman or there's a young man. A young woman is depicted in the photo. A young man is depicted in the photo. There's a young lady standing by the whiteboard who must be the teacher. And there are two other young ladies sitting at the table who are probably students. Please write down the expression. There's a young lady in the photo. There's a is spelled as t-h-e-r-e apostrophe s young y-o-u-n-g lady l-a-d-y slash косая черта man. Note the preposition in. In English we use in the photo. Once again you should have written there's a young lady slash man in the photo. Twenty. На фото маленький ребенок, дошкольник, ребенок дошкольного возраста. На фото маленькие дети. Just listen first. There's a young child in the photo. There are young children in the photo. So young child or young children is used to describe preschool children three to five years of age. Listen and repeat. Focus on the introdental. There. Pronounce it as one word. There's a young child. Young, the n-g give the nasal sound. The tip of your tongue is at the bottom where your bottom teeth are. And the back part of the tongue is up against the soft palate. Вдох и выдох через нос. Inhale and exhale through your nose. There's a young child. The sound is a. It's not o and not u but a. There's a young child in the photo. Focus on the introdental. There are young children. Some other expressions that mean the same thing are a little child is depicted. Preschool children three to five years of age are depicted. You can also refer to these preschoolers as younger kids. Here are some examples. There are some young children playing outdoors. The little child in the foreground is collecting pine cones. Another little one is looking for acorns. Pine cones. Acorns. Please write down young children. Write the translation. Дети дошкольного возраста. Twenty-one. Малыш от одного до трех лет, который только начинает ходить. Listen and repeat. A toddler. The British pronounce this word with more of an o sound, toddler, whereas the American pronunciation is with an o sound, toddler. Another word for toddler is a little one. Little one is an affectionate way to talk about a young child, a little one or little ones. And a toddler is a child who is just learning to walk. It's a child between one and three years of age. Here's an example. There's a toddler in the photo who's out on the playground. The little one is playing with toys in the sandbox. Twenty-two. На фото люди старшего возраста для старшего поколения. Just listen first. There's a senior person. There are some seniors or senior people. You can also say there's a senior lady or there's a senior gentleman in the photo. Listen and repeat. Senior. A senior. A senior person. Focus on the introdental the. There's a. Pronounce there is as one word. There's a. There's a senior person or simply there's a senior. The plural form is there are some seniors or there are some senior people. And to be more specific, there's a senior lady or there's a senior gentleman in the photo. Some other appropriate terms for older people are an older person. An older person is depicted. Some older people are depicted. An older lady or gentleman is depicted. An older man or woman is depicted. The word elderly is not considered to be very polite when talking about older people. And the preferable expressions are an older person or people or seniors. Here's an example. The photo depicts a group of older people in a yoga class. Let's write down numbers 21 and 22. So for 21, please write down a toddler. The spelling of toddler is T O double D L E R. And write the definition for toddler. A child. Between one and three years of age. Who's learning to walk. Once again, a toddler is a child between one and three years of age who is learning to walk. And write down a synonym. A little one. Little L I double T L E. One O N E. A little one. Write the translation. Maldives. Number 22. Please write down a senior person. The word senior is spelled S E N I O R person. And write down a synonym for a senior person. An older person. Write the translation. Человек старшего возраста.
 23. очный-очная-прилогательная и словосочетание очное-групповое занятие Listen and repeat. In-person. An in-person group class. In-person means involving physical presence. Some synonyms for in-person are offline or face-to-face. Example. One image is a photo of an in-person group language class. Please write down the adjective in-person. The spelling is in-person. In-person. Write the translation. очный 24. Это происходит в... Listen and repeat. It's taking place in or it's taking place at. In other words, it's happening in or at. Here's an example. One image is a photo of an in-person group language class taking place in a traditional offline class setting. It looks like it's taking place in an office building or in the classroom of a language school. Please write down the expression. It's taking place in... It's taking place in or at. Write the translation. Это происходит в... Write down the synonymous expression. It's happening in or at. Happening double P. 25. Он или она за компьютером. А также выражение сидеть за своим столом перед компьютером или ноутбуком. She's at the computer. Она за компьютером. And the second expression. She's at her desk in front of a PC or a laptop. PC is your personal computer, laptop, notebook. Once again, she's at her desk in front of a laptop. You can also say that he or she is working on the computer. He or she is seated at his or her desk in front of a PC or a laptop. The other image shows a young man at his desk in front of a laptop. He's wearing headphones. He might be having an online lesson. Please write down the expression. She's at her desk in front of a laptop. Once again, she's at her desk in front of a laptop. 26. Она указывает на или они указывают на. She's pointing to. They're pointing to. Some synonymous expressions are she's motioning toward something. They're gesturing toward something. Here's an example. The young lady standing by the whiteboard is pointing to one of the flags drawn on the board. Perhaps she's explaining the differences between the cultures of these countries. Please write down. She's pointing to. 27. Поднять руку. Он поднял руку. Они подняли руки. Listen and repeat. To have one's hand up. To have one's hand up. He has his hand up. She has her hand up. They have their hands up. To have one's hand up. To hold one's hand up. To raise one's hand. He's holding his hand up. She's holding her hand up. He's raised his hand up. He has raised his hand up. She's raised her hand up. They've raised their hands up. The snapshot depicts a moment when she has her hand up as if to wave hello or goodbye. The students have their hands up probably because they want to respond to the teacher's question. Please write down the expression. They have their hands up. 28. Так как. Продолжение, например, на фото изображены. Listen and repeat. Since there's a. Focus on the introdental the, there, the. Pronounce it as one word, there's a. Since there's a. Since there are. You can also use the word because. Because there's a or because there are. Here's an example. Perhaps she's pointing out the differences between the two cultures since there are two flags drawn on the board. So the word since in this context means так как. It's not the meaning that we are used to. We've been using since to mean с какого-то момента времени. For example, since I started school, с тех пор как я начал учиться в школе. But in this context, since means так как. Так как на на доске нарисованы два флага. Например, since. Please write down the word since. And write the translation. 29. Главное отличие изображений заключается в том, что. Just listen first. The key difference between the images is that. Listen and repeat. The key difference between the images is that. Focus on the introdental. The is that. Images. Letter A in images is pronounced as an I sound. Images. The images. Between the images. The key difference between the images is that. And there are lots of synonymous expressions for that. The main difference between the images. The primary difference. The most significant difference. You can also say that the images differ mainly in that. Or the main distinguishing feature between the images is that. Here's an example. The key difference between the images is that one of the photos shows an in-person class, while the other photo shows an online lesson. Or the main difference between the images is that the former shows a foreign language class taking place in person, whereas the latter image depicts a language lesson happening online. Please write down the expression. The key difference between the images is that. Once again, the key is spelled as K-E-Y. The key difference between the images, I-M-A-G-E-S, is that. And last but not least, number 30. Whereas. Listen and repeat. Whereas. Focus on the label W. Make sure you're using just your lips and that the teeth, the upper teeth, do not touch the bottom lip. So it's W-where. And make sure to pronounce the voiced Z at the end clearly. Whereas. Here are some synonyms for whereas. The first one is conversely. This word has two variants in the stress. So you can place the stress on the first syllable, conversely, or on the second syllable, conversely. By contrast or in contrast and while. While is more colloquial and whereas is more neutral. So in writing, use whereas when you want to show a contrast between two things and use while to talk about things that are happening at the same time. For example, my friend called me while I was waiting. So here are some examples. The key difference between the images is that one of the photos shows an in-person class. Conversely, the other photo shows an online lesson. The main difference between the images is that the former shows a foreign language class taking place in person. By contrast, the latter image depicts a language lesson happening online. One of the images is a photo of a group class. Whereas the other image renders a one-on-one lesson.
