 1. Звонкий виллярный носовой согласный звук, произносимый чаще всего при сочетании букв NG. Listen and repeat the NG sound. This sound is also called NGMA or AGMA. This is a voiced velar nasal sound. Voiced means that we are using our vocal cords to produce this sound. Velar means that this sound is created with the back of your tongue touching the soft palate, which is also known as the velum. The back part of your tongue is touching the soft palate or the velum. The same position of the tongue is when we say the sound K and G. The same position of the tongue is when we say the sound K and G. And finally the word nasal means that we should breathe out through the nose. Выдох через нос. Можно сделать и вдох, и выдох через нос. The tip of your tongue is at the bottom, where the bottom teeth are. Try to breathe in through your nose with your mouth wide open. Попробуйте сделать вдох через нос. Рот открыт. And the tip of the tongue is at the bottom, where the bottom teeth are. Кончик языка при этом внизу у нижних зубов, чтобы не получился звук Н. На выдохе получится искомый Н. So this sound is the last sound in words such as sing and long. In writing it is usually represented with the letters NG or sometimes the letter N before K or C, as in the words think, uncle, thank, thank you, and pink. Please write down the symbol for the sound, which is in the International Phonetic Alphabet. It looks like letter N, but with a long hook at the end. And write down the following pairs of words that you're going to read out on your recording. The first minimal pair is thin, which translates into Russian as тонкий. The second word is thing, which translates into Russian as вещь. This is the first minimal pair. Here's the second minimal pair. It's the word тон, which is spelled as T-O-N or T-O-N-N-E, and it translates into Russian as тонна. Note this word has two spelling variations. So ton with a double N and E at the end is the British spelling. Ton is the American spelling. And the second word is tongue, spelled as T-O-N-G-U-E, which translates into Russian as язык. And finally, the third pair is lawn, spelled as L-A-W-N, which translates into Russian as газон или лужайка. And the second word is long, spelled as L-O-N-G, which translates into Russian as длинный. So in these pairs, you need to pronounce the first word with the sound N, where the tip of your tongue is at the top. And the second word is pronounced with the English N sound. The tip of the tongue is at the bottom. The back part of the tongue is up against the soft palate, as in the sounds к, к, к, н, н, н. Breathe in and breathe out through your nose. So it's thin thing, ton, tongue. Note, the O is pronounced as O in these words. And finally, lawn, long.
 Astrophysics and monocular astrophysics Listen and repeat Astrophysics Focus on the diphthong O Astrophysics A scientist who studies stars and other objects in space is an astrophysicist Astrophysics is the science about stars, space and the universe An astrophysicist is a scientist who studies celestial bodies, which means objects in the sky, stars and other objects in space, using physical laws Here's an example sentence The construction of the Baikal GVD was motivated by its discovery potential in astrophysics, cosmology and particle physics Please write down the word astrophysicist How do you spell that? It's spelled as A-S-T-R-O-P-H-Y-S-I-C-I-S-T An astrophysicist Three particle monocular words high energy particles physical particles astrophysical particles also called physical astro particles Listen and repeat particle a particle A particle translates into Russian as частица high energy particles particle physics astroparticle physics Astrophysical physics translates into Russian as astrophysicochestits In physics, a particle is an extremely small piece of matter that together with other pieces of matter make up an atom Astroparticle physics is a science about particles coming from space Here are some example sentences Neutrinos are thought to be by far the most abundant particles in the entire universe Here is another example The Baikal Deep Underwater Neutrino Telescope or the Baikal GVD gigaton volume detector is an international project in the field of astroparticle physics and neutrino astronomy Please write down the word particle It's spelled as P-A-R-T-I-C-L-E and write down the translation частица Four Yedro существительное в единственном числе а также ядра существительное во множественном числе Нуклон Нуклоны – это частицы, являющиеся основными составляющими атомного ядра К нуклонам относятся протоны и нейтроны Ядерный – прилагательное Ядерная физика Listen and repeat Нуклеус The nucleus Note that the second U at the end is pronounced as an unstressed A sound Together with the letter E, EU at the end gives the diphthong E-A Nucleus The plural form of nucleus is nuclei The next word is nucleon Listen and repeat Nucleon The next word is nuclear And finally, nuclear physics The nucleus is the center of an atom Nuclei is the plural form of nucleus A nucleon is a particle inside the nucleus such as a proton or neutron The adjective nuclear means using atomic energy And finally, nuclear physics means the science of how nuclei and atomic energy work Here are some example sentences When neutrino collides with the nucleus of an atom, it can give energy to the nucleus And sometimes this makes electrons leave the atom And here's another sentence Since neutrinos provide a tool to study the structure of nucleons, which are protons and neutrons To learn how matter evolved from simple particles into more complex groups of particles Creating literally everything around us Please write down the singular and plural forms for nucleus So it's nucleus and nuclei The spelling of the singular form is N-U-C-L-E-U-S The nucleus In parentheses, note that it's the singular form by writing the letter S S for singular And write the plural form, which is spelled as N-U-C-L-E-I Nuclei In parentheses, note that it's the plural form Write P-L This means the plural form So the nucleus and nuclei The nucleus Five Here three different words are combined, proton, neutron and electron Listen and repeat A proton Focus on the diphthong O Pro A proton The next word is neutron A neutron Note there are two variations in the pronunciation of this word The first one is British with a U sound, new, neutron And the second is American with an O sound, new, tron, neutron And the third word is electron Note the pronunciation of the first letter E, it's pronounced as E, not E An electron A proton is an elementary particle inside the nucleus of an atom with a positive charge A neutron is an elementary particle in the nucleus of an atom with no electric charge And an electron is an elementary particle with a negative charge that moves around the nucleus of an atom Here are some examples Sometimes neutrinos enter the nucleus of an atom, pass into one of the protons and neutrons And come very close to a quark in the proton or neutron When neutrino collides with the nucleus of an atom, it can give energy to the nucleus and sometimes this makes electrons leave the atom When a neutrino frees an electron from an atom in clear water, the fast-moving electron can create a faint blue glow called Cherenkov radiation Which can be seen with special detectors Please write down these three names of the three elementary particles Write down a proton It's spelled as P-R-O-T-O-N Write down the word neutron The spelling is N-E-U-T-R-O-N And write down an electron It's spelled as E-L-E-C-T-R-O-N Group these three words with a curly bracket and write elementary particles How do you spell elementary? It's spelled as E-L-E-M-E-N-T-A-R-Y Elementary particles
 6. Точные прилагательные, еднокоренные слова, наречие точно и существительная точность. Listen and repeat. Precise. Precise. Remember to keep the jaws loose when pronouncing the s sound. Precise. Не зажимайте челюсть. The adverb is precisely. Precisely. Precisely translates into Russian as точно. And finally the noun is precision. Precision. This word translates into Russian as точность. Precise means exact, very correct. The adverb precisely means in a way that's exact and correct. And finally precision is the quality of being exact and careful. Here are some examples. Experiments are being conducted to precisely characterize different types of neutrino interactions. These experiments can measure the details of neutrino oscillations high precision. Please write down the expression high precision. Высокая точность. How do you spell high precision? The first word is h-i-g-h high and the second word precision is spelled as p-r-e-c-i-s-i-o-n. Precision. High precision. Seven. Глагол измерять и существительное измерение. Listen and repeat. Measure. To measure. To measure is a verb, the глагол, and it translates into Russian as измерять. The noun is measurement. A measurement. To measure means to find the size, amount, or value. A measurement is the result when you measure something. Here's an example. The experiments can measure the details of neutrino oscillations with high precision. Eight. Нитрино. Listen and repeat. A neutrino. A neutrino. Note the two variations in the pronunciation. The first is British with a u sound, a new trino, and the second is American with an o sound, a new trino. Also remember to pronounce the diphthong o at the end, neutrino. A neutrino. A neutrino is a very tiny particle with almost no mass, moving very fast. Here's an example. In order for physicists to understand the role neutrinos play in the evolution of our universe, they need to better understand how neutrinos interact with other particles. Please write down the name of this particle. A neutrino. How do you spell that? It's spelled as n-e-u-t-r-i-n-o. A neutrino. Nine. Существительный объем и однокоренной прилагательной объемной. Listen and repeat. Volume. Volume. Note the British variation with more of an o sound, volume, whereas the American is more of an o sound, volume. That's the noun, and the adjective прилагательное is voluminous. Voluminous. Voluminous translates into Russian as объемный. Note the o-u-s ending. It's pronounced as an us, us sound. So only one vowel. Us. Voluminous. Voluminous. Volume is the amount of space something takes up, whereas voluminous is something very large. A voluminous piece of clothing is very large, that has a lot of cloth in it. Oversized clothing tends to be very voluminous, and a voluminous piece of writing is long and detailed. Here's an example sentence with the noun volume. Lake Baikal is the largest by volume freshwater lake in the world. Please write down the noun volume. The spelling is v-o-l-u-m-e. Volume. Write down the translation. Объем. А также громкость звука. So volume also has another meaning, which is the volume of sound. 10. Распространенный метод. Listen and repeat. A common technique. Please repeat the word common. Note the variations in pronunciation. The British pronounce it more with an o sound, common, whereas the American pronunciation is more with an o sound, common. Common. Let's focus on the word technique. The ch is pronounced as a k sound, tech, neek, and so is the q. And the stress is on the second syllable, technique. Listen and repeat. A common technique. A common technique is a usual way of doing something, especially in science or work. Here's the example from the text. There are many other neutrino detectors around the world, using different materials and different strategies. A common technique is to build a huge detector full of water or some other clear liquid. Please write down the expression. A common technique. How do you spell common? It's c-o-m-o-n. And the spelling of technique is t-e-c-h-n-i-q-u-e. A common technique.
 11. Существительная поверхность и однокоренное прилагательное поверхностный, надводный, наземный. Listen and repeat. Surface. Surface. Keep the tip of the tongue to the front. Note the pronunciation of the letter A. It's pronounced as an I sound. Surface. Keep your jaws loose. Не зажимайте челюсть when pronouncing с. Surface. This is a noun, существительное, which translates into Russian as поверхность, and the adjective has the same form. Surface. The noun surface means the outside or top layer of something. It's the outermost part. The adjective surface means on the top or not deep. Here are some examples. Lake Baikal contains 23% of the world's fresh surface water. Surface temperature changes rapidly at night. Please write down the word surface. How do you spell surface? The spelling is surface. It translates into Russian as поверхность. 12. Великие озера. Великие североамериканские озера. Это система пяти крупнейших пресноводных озер в Северной Америке на территории США и Канады. К ним относятся Верхние, Мичиган, Гурон, Эри и Антарио. Listen and repeat. The Great Lakes. Also known as the Great Lakes of North America. They are a group of five very large lakes in North America, which include Lake Superior, Lake Michigan, Lake Huron, Lake Erie, and Lake Ontario. Here's an example. Lake Baikal contains 23% of the world's fresh surface water, which is more water than all of the North American Great Lakes combined. Please write down the name of this group of five large lakes. The Great Lakes. The spelling is capital G, the главная буква G, R-E-A-T, and capital L-A-K-E-S. The Great Lakes. Thirteen. Существительная глубина, а также однокоренные слова, прилагательное глубокий и глагол углублять. Listen and repeat. Depth. Depth. Focus on the introdental. Depth. This is a noun, существительное, which translates into Russian as глубина. The adjective, прилагательное, is deep, and the verb, глагол, is to deepen, which translates into Russian as углублять. Depth is the distance down from the surface. To deepen means to make something deeper. Here's an example. Because of its depth, Lake Baikal is the only lake where it was possible to set up a neutrino telescope. Please write down the word depth. The spelling is D-E-P-T-H. Depth translates into Russian as глубина. Please also write down the word width. It's spelled as W-I-D-T-H. Width. Width translates into Russian as ширина. And write down another word. Length. Length is spelled as L-E-N-G-T-H. Length. And it translates into Russian as длина. When you read these three words out on your recording, focus on the intradental th at the end of each word. Depth, width, and length. Note that the letter N in length is not pronounced. Instead, it's the nasal sound we talked about earlier. Length. Length. Once again, it's depth, width, and length. 14. Глагол производить и однокоренные слова. Существительная продукция, существительное продукт-изделие-товар, существительное производство, прилагательное продуктивный и еще одно существительное продуктивность. Listen and repeat. To produce is a verb, глагол, which translates into Russian as производить. Note the variations in pronunciation. The British pronunciation has more of a U sound, produce, whereas the American is just an O sound, produce. To produce. The noun, существительное, which has the same spelling, is pronounced with a stress on the first syllable. Produce. Once again, it's produce. This is the American pronunciation. The British pronunciation is with an O sound, produce, and the U at the end, produce. Once again, the verb is to produce the noun is produce or produce. The next noun, which translates into Russian as продукт-изделие-товар, is product. A product. Once again, note the variations in pronunciation. The British pronounce it more with an O sound, product, whereas the American variant has more of an A sound, product. A product. This word can be either countable or uncountable. The next noun is production. Once again, it's production. Keep the stress sound soft. This noun translates into Russian as производство. The adjective is productive. Productive, which translates into Russian as продуктивный. And finally, the noun productivity. Productivity. So the American variant has the diphthong O, productivity, whereas the British version has an O sound, productivity. Productivity translates into Russian as продуктивность. To produce means to make or create something, whereas the noun produce means food or anything else that people get through farming typically. So produce means сельскохозяйственная или фермерская продукция, как правило. A product is something that is made to be sold, and production is the act of making something. The adjective productive means giving a lot of good results, and productivity is how much is made in a certain time. Let's focus on the verb to produce, and here's an example sentence. Neutrinos are produced in nuclear fusion processes that power the sun and other stars. Please write down the verb to produce. It's spelled as p-r-o-d-u-c-e. To produce translates into Russian as производить. Действительно, гигант-великан, а также еще одна форма прилагательного с таким же значением, гигантский с половинский. Действительно, гигант-великан, а также еще одна форма прилагательного с таким же значением, гигантский с половинкой. Действительно, гигант-великан, а также еще одна форма прилагательного с таким же значением, гигантский с половинкой. Действительно, гигант-великан, а также еще одна форма прилагательного с таким же значением, гигантский с половинкой. Действительно, гигант-великан, а также еще одна форма прилагательного с таким же значением, гигантский с половинкой. Действительно, гигант-великан, а также еще одна форма прилагательного с таким же значением, гигантский с половинкой. Действительно, гигант-великан, а также еще одна форма прилагательного с таким же значением, гигантский с половинкой. Действительно, гигант-великан, а также еще одна форма прилагательного с таким же значением, гигантский с половинкой. Действительно, гигант-великан, а также еще одна форма прилагательного с таким же значением, гигантский с половинкой. Действительно, гигант-великан, а также еще одна форма прилагательного с таким же значением, гигантский с половинкой. Действительно, гигант-великан, а также еще одна форма прилагательного с таким же значением, гигантский с половинкой. Действительно, гигант-великан, а также еще одна форма прилагательного с таким же значением, гигантский с половинкой. Действительно, гигант-великан, а также еще одна форма прилагательного с таким же значением, гигантский с половинкой. Действительно, гигант-великан, а также еще одна форма прилагательного с таким же значением, гигантский с половинкой. Гиант. Гигантский. Гигантский. Гигантский. Гигантский. Гигантский. Гигантский. Гигантский. Гигантский. Гигантский. Гигантский. Гигантский. Гигантский. Гигантский. Гигантский. Гигантский. Гигантский. Гигантский. Гигантский. Гигантский. Гигантский. Гигантский. Гигантский. Гигантский. Гигантский. Гигантский. Гигантский.
 16. Глагол обнаруживать и два однокоренных прилагательных, заметный обнаруживаемый и второе прилагательное не обнаруженный. undetected. Note the pronunciation of the final E at the end. It's pronounced as ИД. Undetected. Undetected translates into Russian as Необнаруженный. To detect means to find, discover or notice something. Detectable means something that can be noticed, discovered or found. Some good synonyms for detectable are observable and noticeable. Undetected means not noticed, discovered or found. In other words, unnoticed. Here's an example sentence. Most neutrinos move undetected, but sometimes a neutrino hits an atomic nucleus, leaving a detectable trace. Please write down the adjective undetected. The spelling is undetected, which translates into Russian as Необнаруженный, не выявленный, незамеченный. 17. Глагол наблюдать, а также однокоренные слова, существительная наблюдатель, прилагательная наблюдательный, еще одно прилагательное заметный наблюдаемый и два существительных наблюдения и обсерватория. Listen and repeat. Observe, to observe. Keep the tip of your tongue to the front. To observe is a verb, which translates into Russian as наблюдать. The next word is a noun, an observer, an observer, which translates into Russian as наблюдатель. The next word is an adjective, observant, observant. Observant translates into Russian as наблюдательный. The next adjective is observable, observable. Keep your jaws loose, make sure you're not tightening the jaw when pronouncing the z sound. Observable translates into Russian as заметный наблюдаемый. The next word is a noun, observation. Observation. Observation translates into Russian as наблюдение. And finally, the word observatory. Note the two variants in pronunciation. The American is observatory, observatory, whereas the British is observatory, an observatory. So in the British variant, the last O is reduced, which means that it's pronounced as a shorter sound and it's pronounced less clearly. Observatory, whereas in the American version, the last O is pronounced clearly as an O sound, observatory, observatory. To observe means to watch carefully, to notice. An observer is a person who watches or notices things. An observant person is someone who is quick to notice. A good synonym for observant is attentive. And the adjective observable means possible to see or notice. In other words, noticeable or detectable. The noun observation means the act of watching something or it could also mean a remark. For example, when you want to say that someone said something interesting, you can say, oh, that's an interesting observation, that's an interesting remark. Finally, an observatory is a building for watching the stars or scientific events. Here are some example sentences. The first one is, most neutrinos move undetected, but sometimes a neutrino hits an atomic nucleus, leaving a trace which can be observed. Here's another example. The Moscow Planetarium features an observatory, which allows visitors to observe various celestial objects. Please write down the verb to observe. The spelling is O-B-S-E-R-V-E. To observe, which translates into Russian as наблюдать. Eighteen. Listen and repeat. An x-ray. An x-ray. X-ray is light that can go through things and show pictures of bones. The Chandra X-ray Observatory is a space-based telescope launched by NASA in 1999 that observes the universe in x-ray wavelengths. Please write down an x-ray. How do you spell x-ray? It's capital X hyphen diffuse R-A-Y. An x-ray. It translates into Russian as рентгеновский снимок. Nineteen. Listen and repeat. Liquid. A liquid is a substance, such as water, that is not solid or a gas and that can be poured easily. There are many other neutrino detectors around the world, using different materials and different strategies. A common technique is to build a giant detector full of water. Or some other clear liquid. Please write down the word liquid, which is spelled as L-I-Q-U-I-D. It translates into Russian as жидкость или жидкий. Жидкость или жидкий. Twenty. Listen and repeat. Exist. Exist. Note the pronunciation of the first E. It's pronounced as a short sound and letter X is pronounced as a combination of the voiced consonants G and Z. Exist. To exist is a verb, which translates into Russian as существовать. The adjective is existing. Existing translates into Russian as существующий. And finally, the noun is existence. Existence. Existence translates into Russian as существование. To exist means to be real or to be present. The adjective existing is something that is there now. And the noun existence means the state of being real or present. Here is an example sentence. Modern cosmology believes the universe to have come into existence about 15 billion years ago. Please write down the verb to exist. It's spelled as E-X-I-S-T. To exist translates into Russian as существовать.
