 One. Согласный звук. A consonant. A consonant is a speech sound that cannot be sung. In other words, you can't sing this sound. It's a speech sound that's not a vowel. Ваул. Гласный звук. Consonants are pronounced by stopping the air from flowing easily through the mouth, especially by closing the lips or touching the teeth with a tongue. The interdentals in English are consonant sounds. Please write down the following words with the interdental consonants. The first expression is I think that. Once again, I think that. And the second word is something. Take a pencil or a marker and highlight or circle the combination of letters TH. So TH in think, TH in that, and TH in something. On the audio recordings, please practice reading these words with three different sounds. First, substitute TH with a S sound or with a Z sound. I think that something. Next, substitute it with a F or V sound. I think that something. And then finally pronounce it with the correct interdental sound. I think that and something. Also, please write down the word consonant. The spelling is c-o-n-s-o-n-a-n-t. And write the translation согласный. A consonant согласный. And write down the word vowel. How do you spell that? It's v-o-w-e-l. Vowel. Write the translation, согласный. Two. Пологласный звук. A semi vowel. Semi vowel. A semi vowel is a sound which is similar to a vowel, but functions as a consonant. A synonym for a semi vowel is a semi consonant. The words yes and well in English start with semi vowels. The semi vowel и and the semi vowel в. The sound в is a semi vowel that is produced with both lips. Please write down the following words which start with a semi vowel в. Will. W-i-l-l. Would. The spelling is w-o-u-l-d. With. W-i-t-h. As well as. As well as. And very well. Get a pencil or a marker and circle or highlight the w letter in each word. Will. Would. With. Well. Well again. When you read these words out in your recording, focus on pronouncing the semi vowel в using just your lips в. Your teeth should not be engaged, so as soon as your upper teeth touch the bottom lip, you get a в sound that you need in the word very. Listen and repeat. W-will. W-would. W-with. Remember the introdental the. As well as. As well as. Bite your bottom lip. Very. Very. W-well. Very well.
 Двугласный звук – это сочетание двухгласных звуков, произносимых слитно один за другим, как один звук. Твои верхние зубы touching the lower lip, but then you need to transition to the intradental th sound. Diff, thong and the ng at the end are pronounced as the nasal m sound. The back of your tongue is touching the soft palate. The back of your tongue is touching the soft palate. Exhale through the nose. Diff, thong. Listen and repeat. Diff. Focus on the intradental sound. Thong. A diphthong. A diphthong is also known as a gliding vowel. It is a combination of two vowel sounds within the same syllable. There are eight diphthongs in English. O, ou, oi, ai, ei, ie, ea, and ua. So, O as in most or both, ou as in doubt and allow, oi as in join, ai as in height, might or Chinese, ei as in able, ea as in dear or hearing, ea as in awareness, and ou as in pure and cure. Please write down the transcription symbol for the diphthong O. It's an upside down E with a symbol that looks like letter U or looks like a horse's hoof. O. And then write down the following words that have the sound. The first word is most. Remember, there is no most in English, there's most. The next word is both, b-o-t-h. The third word is whole, w-h-o-l-e. The next word is approach, the spelling is a-w-p-r-o-a-c-h-o. Approach. And write down the word although. The spelling is a-l-t-h-o-u-g-h. Although. The stress is on the second syllable. Focus on pronouncing the introdental the properly and the diphthong o. Although. Get two different color pens or highlighters. Use one color to highlight the o in these words. And then use a different color to highlight or circle the th combinations in both and although. Now listen and repeat. O most. O both. O whole. O approach. O although. Four. Driftongue. Listen. A trif-thongue. The combination of letters ph is pronounced as the labiodental th sound, which means your upper teeth are touching the lower lip. But then you need to make a transition to the introdental th. And at the end, the ng are pronounced as the nasal sound with the back part of your tongue touching the soft palate and the tip of your tongue is at the bottom. Inhale and exhale through your nose. Thongue. A trif-thongue. Listen and repeat. Trif-f. Focus on the introdental thongue. Trif-thongue. A trif-thongue is a combination of three vowel sounds within the same syllable. There are five trif-thongs in English. Aya. Awa. Eya. Oya. Owa. Aya as in inspire. Awa as in flower and vowel. Eya as in player. Oya as in joyous. Owa as in lower. Please write down the following two words with trif-thongue sounds. The first word is inspiring. And how do you spell inspiring? It's i-n-s-p-i-r-i-n-g. Aya. Inspiring. Inspiring translates as вдохновляющий. Now write down the word vowel. It's spelled as v-o-w-e-l. Vowel. Awa. Vowel. And this word translates as классный. Five. Вягкое небо. The soft palate. Listen and repeat. Palate. The soft palate. The soft palate is the soft area at the top inside the mouth. Another word for the soft palate is the velum. So with the tip of your tongue, if you touch your upper teeth and then move the tongue back, further back, behind the upper teeth, you'll feel the alveolar ridges. Then if you continue moving your tongue, you'll feel the hard palate. It's like the top part of your mouth. And then if you move it way far back, you'll feel it become soft. This is the soft palate. The voiced velar nasal consonant. Which in writing is usually represented by the combination of letters N and G. Is articulated with the back of the tongue at the soft palate. Спинка языка касается мягкого неба. Звук как бы в горлышке как будто бы. Inhale and exhale through your nose. The tip of your tongue is at the bottom where your lower teeth are. Кончик языка у нижних зубов. Please write down the following words with the sound. The first word is THINK. The next word is THANKS. The next word is LANGUAGE. And finally the expression BEING ABLE TO. How do you spell BEING? It's B-E-I-N-G. And the next word is ABLE. THINK, THANKS, LANGUAGE, BEING ABLE TO. Get a marker or a pencil and please circle or highlight the places with the sound. So it's the letter N in THINK. The combination of N and K give us the NK sound. The letter N in THANKS. Note we do not say THENKS, but we pronounce the nasal sound THANG. THANK is soft. THINKS, THINKS, THINK, THINK, THINK, THINK, THINKS. The next one is the NG combination in LANGUAGE. And the NG combination in BEING. Use a different color to highlight the introdental TH sound in THINK and THANKS, the letters TH. And make sure you focus on these sounds as you read them out on your recording. So listen and repeat. THINK, THANKS, LANGUAGE, BEING ABLE TO.
 6. Восточные языки. Oriental languages. Oriental languages are a group of languages spoken in Asia, especially in East and Southeast Asia, including Chinese, Japanese, Korean, etc. Many people nowadays are interested in being able to speak Oriental languages. Many students would like to be able to study Oriental languages like Chinese and Japanese at university. Oriental languages often have different alphabets and writing systems. I think that Oriental languages, which have symbols instead of words, are extremely hard to learn for people who are more used to Roman letters. Please write down the phrase Oriental languages. How do you spell Oriental? It's O-R-I-E-N-T-A-L. 7. Китайские иероглифы. Listen and repeat. 8. Chinese characters. Once again, Chinese characters. Chinese characters are logographs, which are special symbols that are used in the Chinese writing system. Note that the word hieroglyphs is usually used to talk about ancient writing systems, mainly the one used in ancient Egypt and also the writing system of the ancient Maya. For the symbols used in modern Chinese languages, use the word characters. So Chinese characters or Han characters. Please write down Chinese characters. How do you spell that? It's capital C-H-I-N-E-S-E. And characters C-H-A-R-A-C-T-E-R-S. Remember to always capitalize words that have to do with country names. So the names of countries are always capitalized, nationalities are capitalized, and languages are also always capitalized. And the adjective that comes from a word denoting a country should always be capitalized. So Chinese is spelled with a capital C. 8. Previous or previous prepositions and root words, prepositions before, before or before, noun priority and verbs to put in priority. Listen and repeat. Prior. Prior is an adjective. It translates into Russian as предварительный. The preposition is prior to. Prior to translates into Russian as перед, до, раньше. The noun is priority. It translates into Russian as приоритет. And the verb, глагол, is to prioritize. To prioritize. To prioritize translates into Russian as ставить в приоритет. Prior means previous or earlier in time. It's an adjective. The preposition prior to means before a particular time or event. The noun priority is something very important that needs attention first. And the verb to prioritize means to arrange things so that the most important things are done first. Here's an example sentence from the essay. Write down the following. Write down prior to, the preposition. How do you spell prior to? The spelling is P-R-I-O-R and the second word is to-T-O. Write the translation. Перед или до. And write down the verb to prioritize. How do you spell prioritize? The spelling is P-R-I-O-R-I-T-I-Z-E. Also note the British spelling. It's spelled with an S at the end in British English. So prioritize T-I-S-E and the American spelling is Z-E at the end. And write the translation. It translates as ставить в приоритет.
 9. Обзацы основной части Listen and repeat. The body paragraphs The body paragraphs present the main points of an essay, and each one explains and argues one aspect of the thesis statement. The first and second body paragraphs of the response to the essay prompt in Task 38 on Yigge describe and analyze the survey data. The third body paragraph outlines a possible problem connected to the subject and offers a solution to this problem. Please write down the body paragraphs and write the definition. The body paragraphs present the main points of an essay. Once again, the body paragraphs present the main points of an essay. 10. Тематическое предложение Listen and repeat. The topic sentence The topic sentence states one aspect of the thesis, telling readers what the paragraph is about. The topic sentence for the first body paragraph of the essay refers readers to the information presented in the table or pie chart. It starts with a description of the table or pie chart. Here is one example of the beginning of the topic sentence for the first body paragraph. The table or pie chart with the survey results shows five types of something or five ways of doing something. The topic sentence for the second body paragraph starts with analyzing the data, because comparing pieces of data is in fact a type of analysis. Another way to start this paragraph is to say the survey data revealed, signaling to the reader that this paragraph will analyze the survey data. Please write down the topic sentence and the definition. The topic sentence states one aspect of the thesis, which tells readers what the paragraph is about. Once again, the topic sentence states one aspect of the thesis, telling readers what the paragraph is about. Eleven. Listen and repeat. The supporting sentences. The supporting sentences give specific information about the main idea, presenting details, examples, explanations, facts and arguments. Please write down the supporting sentences. How do you spell supporting? It's S-U-P-O-R-T-I-N-G. Once again, the supporting sentences give specific information about the main idea. Please write down the definition as well. They give specific information about the main idea. Twelve. Just listen first. The table or the pie chart with the results of the survey shows five different types of something or ways of something. The table or the pie chart with the results of the survey shows five different types of something or ways of something. In other words, the table or the pie chart with survey data presents figures for five various types of something or ways of something. For example, the table with the survey results shows five additional reasons beyond communication purposes for learning foreign languages. Thirteen. Listen and repeat. The survey data reveal. Note that in English, the word data is actually plural, which is why the proper form is reveal and not reveals. However, reveals is also acceptable. So the survey data reveals, but the proper grammar is reveal. Another way to phrase this idea is to say that analyzing the survey data, it becomes evident that here are some examples from the essay. Analyzing the data, it becomes evident that the number of responses for the option to show appreciation for other cultures is significantly greater than the number of responses for the option to reflect on one's own cultural identity at 49% and 4%, respectively. Or another way to start your second body paragraph is to say the survey data reveal a lack of awareness about using foreign languages as a tool to deepen learners understanding of their own culture and native tongue. Please write down the expression. The survey data reveal. And how do you spell reveal? It's R-E-V-E-A-L. The survey data reveal. And write down another expression that you can use. Analyzing the survey data, it becomes evident that. Once again, it's analyzing the survey data or simply analyzing the data, it becomes evident that. Also note the difference in spelling between the American and the British versions. For the verb to analyze. So the British variant has an S at the end. Analyze L-Y-S-E. Whereas the American variant has a Z or letter Z at the end. L-Y-Z-E. Fourteen. Listen and repeat. A striking difference in figures. Once again, it's a striking difference in figures. And you may add between some of the options or between the groups of respondents. Another way of phrasing this idea is to say that there is a substantial gap. In the numbers between some of the options. So a striking difference in figures or a substantial gap in the numbers. The use of the article, the definite article or the indefinite article. A striking difference or the striking difference depends on the context. Here's an example. The striking difference in figures between the options may, in fact, reflect a growing popularity of travel among young people. Please write down the expression. A striking difference in figures. Once again, it's a striking difference in figures. And write down the synonymous expression. A substantial gap in the numbers. How do you spell substantial? It's spelled as S-U-B-S-T-A-N-T-I-A-L. A substantial gap in the numbers between some of the options.
 15. Наречие «процент» дословно переводится как «на сотню». Прилагательное – десятипроцентное. Существительное – процент или доля, то есть численный показатель. И существительное – процентные пункты. Слышите и повторите. Перцент. Перцент. Обратите внимание на версию в спелке. «Перцент» может быть написан как одно слово или как два отдельных слова. Пер-цент. Существительное переводится как «на сотню». 10% – с дефисом. Перцент. Перцент. Численный показатель. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Соберите фигуру для опции. Соберите фигуру для опции. Соберите фигуру для опции. Соберите фигуру для опции. Соберите фигуру для опции. Соберите фигуру для опции. Соберите фигуру для опции. Соберите фигуру для опции. Соберите фигуру для опции. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Перцент. Синоним для значительно больше ответов это значительно больше ответов и для меньших ответов можно использовать значительно меньше ответов или значительно меньше ответов. Синоним для значительно меньших ответов это значительно меньше ответов или значительно меньше ответов. Синоним для значительно меньших ответов это значительно меньше ответов или значительно меньше ответов. Синоним для значительно меньших ответов это значительно меньше ответов или значительно меньше ответов. Синоним для значительно меньших ответов это значительно меньше или значительно больше или значительно меньше ответов. Синоним для значительно меньших ответов это значительно больше ответов или значительно меньше ответов. Синоним для значительно меньших ответов это значительно меньше ответов. Синоним для значительно меньших ответов это значительно меньше ответов. Синоним для значительно меньших ответов это значительно меньше ответов. Обратите внимание на использование слова «меньше» Респондент – это значительно значительное слово, так что мы должны использовать «меньше». Здесь есть синонимная экспрессия. Синоним для значительно меньших ответов и меньшим ответов. Средний пример. Синоним для значительно меньших ответов это значительно меньше ответов. Синоним для значительно меньших ответов это значительно меньше ответов. Синоним для значительно меньших ответов и значительно меньше ответов, как сравнивая с опцией, которая была обыкновена. Пожалуйста, написайте следующие экспрессии. «Меньше» субтитры «меньше» субтитры «меньше» субтитры. Как вы называете «меньше»? Субтитры «меньше» «меньше» субтитры «меньше» субтитры «меньше» субтитры «меньше» субтитры «меньше» субтитры «меньше» субтитры «меньше» субтитры «меньше» субтитры субтитры субтитры субтитры субтитры субтитры субтитры субтитры субтитры субтитры субтитры субтитры субтитры субтитры субтитры субтитры субтитры субтитры субтитры субтитры субтитры субтитры субтитры субтитры субтитры субтитры
 19. Существенно, значительно – это наречие, и слово, которое имеет противоположное значение, немного незначительно. Эти слова неоднокоренные, но они связаны по смыслу, так как являются противоположными. Listen and repeat. Substantially. Substantially is an adverb, наречие, and it translates into Russian as существенно значительно. The opposite of substantially is slightly. Slightly is an adverb, наречие, and it translates into Russian as немного незначительно. Some good synonyms for substantially are significantly and considerably. A good synonym for slightly is somewhat. Somewhat means only to a small degree or insignificantly. Here are some examples. By contrast, the number of those who consider reflecting on one's own cultural identity to be the most important additional reason to study foreign languages is substantially smaller. This option has received only 4% of the responses. The figure for the option to better understand the mentality of people from other cultural backgrounds is only slightly greater, with 6% of the total number of responses. Please write down the adverb substantially. It's spelled as SUVSTANTIALY and write the translation существенно. Also write down the adverb slightly. The spelling is SLIGHTLY and write the translation немного незначительно. Twenty. Этот вариант ответа получил или набрал определенное количество голосов. И похожая фраза. Вариант ответа который получил или набрал определенное количество голосов. Слышите и повторяйте. Этот вариант получил или набрал определенное количество голосов. Слышите и повторяйте. Этот вариант получил или набрал определенное количество голосов. Слышите и повторяйте. Этот вариант получил или набрал определенное количество голосов. Слышите и повторяйте. Этот вариант получил или набрал определенное количество голосов. Слышите и повторяйте. Этот вариант получил или набрал определенное количество голосов. Слышите и повторяйте. Этот вариант получил или набрал определенное количество голосов. Слышите и повторяйте. Этот вариант получил или набрал определенное количество голосов. Слышите и повторяйте. Этот вариант получил или набрал определенное количество голосов. Слышите и повторяйте. Этот вариант получил или набрал определенное количество голосов. Слышите и повторяйте. Этот вариант получил или набрал определенное количество голосов. Слышите и повторяйте. Этот вариант получил или набрал определенное количество голосов. 21. Местоименная конструкция, то есть это фраза, которая замещает ранее упомянутое существительное или его характеристику. Слышите и повторяйте. Это фраза, которая замещает ранее упомянутое существительное или его характеристику. Слышите и повторяйте. Это фраза, которая замещает ранее упомянутое существительное или его характеристику. Слышите и повторяйте. Это фраза, которая замещает ранее упомянутое существительное или его характеристику. Слышите и повторяйте. Это фраза, которая замещает ранее упомянутое существительное или его характеристику. Слышите и повторяйте. Это фраза, которая замещает ранее упомянутое существительное или его характеристику. Эти фразы функционируют как прононы, значительно «выбор» или «выборки». И они используются как субституции, чтобы заменять фразы, которые замещают ранее упомянутое существительное или его характеристику. Например, вместо повторяющегося фразы, количество ответов на первую опцию больше, чем количество ответов на вторую опцию. Вы можете использовать «выбор» вместо количества ответов. Дословно, чем то же самое. Обратите внимание, что если на русском можно сказать количество голосов для варианта А больше, чем для варианта B, то в английском дословный перевод будет являться ошибкой. Если на русском можно сказать количество голосов для варианта А больше, чем для варианта B, то в английском дословный перевод будет являться ошибкой. Дословно, чем то же самое для второй опции или для второго варианта. Если вы можете использовать «выбор» вместо количества ответов на первую опцию, то вы можете заменять их с «тосов». Пожалуйста, пишите две эфекции «тосов» в сингуляции и «тосов» в плорал-форме. Дословно, чем то же самое. Обратите внимание, что если на русском можно сказать количество голосов для варианта А больше, чем для варианта B, то в английском дословном переводе будет являться ошибкой. 22. Может свидетельствовать о том, что или же, возможно, отражает тот факт, что А синонимная эфекция может быть объяснена тем фактом, что Вот пример. И вот та же сентябрь с другим образом. Пожалуйста, пишите две эфекции. «Может рефлектировать» и «может рефлектировать» в скобочках. И пишите вторую эфекцию. «Может быть объяснена» и «может рефлектировать» в скобочках. Экспрессия эта полезна для комментирования на вашу сравнение с данными. 23. Глагол «отражать» и «думать» И однокоренные слова, прилагательное «отражающий» или «задумчивый», прилагательное «рефлексивный» или «рефлекторный», и существительное «отражение», а также «размышление». 24. Глагол «отражать» и «думать» И имеет переносное значение «думать». 25. Глагол «отражать» и «думать» «Рефлексивный» или «рефлекторный» 26. Глагол «отражать» и «думать» «Рефлексивный» и «думать» 27. Глагол «отражать» и «думать» 28. Глагол «отражать» и «думать» 29. Глагол «отражать» и «думать» 30. Глагол «отражать» и «думать» 31. Глагол «отражать» и «думать» 30. Глагол «отражать» и «думать» 31. Глагол «отражать» и «думать» 32. Глагол «отражать» и «думать» 33. Глагол «отражать» и «думать» 34. Глагол «отражать» и «думать»
 24. Каждый вид активности или деятельности имеет свои преимущества и недостатки. Just listen first. Each type of activity has its merits and drawbacks. Listen and repeat. Drawbacks. Merits and drawbacks. Has its merits and drawbacks. Type of. Type of activity. Each type of activity has its merits and drawbacks. Another way of phrasing this is to say that both types of activity have their pros and cons, or they have their pluses and minuses. Here are some examples. Each way of studying foreign languages has its merits and drawbacks. Or both ways of learning foreign languages have their pros and cons. They each have their pluses and minuses. Please write down the following expression. Each type of activity has its merits and drawbacks. Once again, each type of activity has its ITS without an apostrophe. Has its merits and drawbacks. The spelling of drawbacks is DRAWBACKS. Each type of activity has its merits and drawbacks. 25. What about the positive aspects? For example, group classes. Just listen first. As for the positive aspects of in-person group classes. Listen and repeat. As for. As for the positive aspects of. Focus on the intradental. The positive aspects of. Sub. Aspects of. In-person group classes. As for the positive aspects of in-person group classes. In other words, talking about the benefits of in-person group classes. Or the advantages of in-person group classes include. As for the positive aspects of in-person group classes, I'd point out that participating in group activities in a shared physical space. Enhances engagement and motivation. An advantage of in-person group classes is that you do things together with other students in the same room. The special atmosphere and face-to-face communication make learning more motivating and fun. Please write down the expression. As for the positive aspects of. Write the translation. As for the positive aspects of. 26. I would note that. Listen and repeat. I'd point out that. Focus on the intradental. That. I'd point out that. When you read out this expression, make sure that you're pronouncing the D clearly. I'd. The contracted words in I'd are I and would. I would point out that. Colloquially, we say I'd point out that. I'd point out that. You can also use synonymous expressions such as I'd say that or I'd note that. I'd note that. Here are some examples. As for the positive aspects of in-person group classes, I'd point out that participating in group activities in a shared physical space enhances engagement and motivation. An advantage of in-person group classes is that you do things together with other students in the same room. Students are able to work together in the same space. The special atmosphere and face-to-face communication make learning more motivating and fun. 27. On the other hand. Or what about the disadvantages? Listen and repeat. On the downside. Focus on the intradental. That. On the downside. Some synonymous expressions to that include on the negative side or on the flip side. On the downside, online lessons might not be good for our health because you don't move much. On the flip side, you need to have excellent internet connection, which can sometimes be unreliable or unstable, so you have to cancel the lesson. Another possible drawback is that online interaction is subject to periodic, unpredicted disruptions, which may negatively impact the learning process. You might not be able to have regular lessons if your internet connection isn't very stable. 28. On the whole. Focus on the intradental. That. And focus on the diphthong O in whole. On the whole. On the whole. Here are some good synonyms for this expression. In general or overall. On the whole, the in-person class is likely to offer a more memorable and rewarding language learning experience. Overall, traditional offline classes are usually more engaging, more fun, and memorable. For number 28, please write down the expression. On the whole. How do you spell whole? It's W-H-O-L-E. Write the translation. And write the two synonyms. In general. G-E-N-E-R-A-L. And overall. O-V-E-R-A-L.
 29. Позволять, допускать, планировать, учитывать, обеспечивать, предусматривать. Это фразовый глагол, то есть глагол, состоящий из глагола и предлога, а также выражение, чтобы предусмотреть или обеспечить место либо возможность для чего-либо. Listen and repeat. To allow for. To allow for something. This is a phrasal verb. To allow for. And the expression, чтобы предусмотреть или чтобы обеспечить место либо возможности для чего-либо. So as to allow room for something. To allow for means to consider or to think about something when planning. So as to allow room for something means to plan, so there is extra space or so that there is extra amount for something. Here are some examples. Online learning allows for more flexibility in terms of scheduling. When scheduling an online lesson, it's important to allow for unexpected internet connection disruptions and plan your time accordingly. 30. Прилагательные гибкие, а также однокоренные слова, наречие гибко, существительная гибкость, способность легко меняться и два словосочетания. Первое это гибкий подход либо способ решения с учетом изменений. И второе словосочетание, гибкий график. Listen and repeat. Flexible. Flexible is an adjective. The adverb is flexibly. Это наречие гибко. Flexibly. The noun is flexibility, гибкость. Flexibility. And the expression is a flexible approach, гибкий подход или способ решения. Focus on the diphthong. Oh, roach, approach, a flexible approach, a flexible schedule or schedule. Flexible means able to bend easily without breaking or able to change easily according to the situation. Flexibly means in a way that can change or adapt easily. And the noun flexibility is the ability to change or adapt easily. A flexible approach is a way of doing things that can change to meet different needs. A flexible schedule is a plan or timetable that can change or be moved to fit different situations. Another disadvantage of offline courses is that they are less flexible in terms of scheduling. Another disadvantage is that offline classes have less flexible schedules, so it's not always possible to find a time which works for you personally. A one-on-one online lesson, on the other hand, can be scheduled when it is convenient for both the student and the teacher. This flexibility makes it easy to fit multiple lessons into your schedule. 31. Прилагательное – удобный, подходящий. И противоположное – неудобный, непрактичный. Однокоренное наречие – удобно, подходящим образом. И однокоренное – существительное, удобство, польза. А также словосочетание, которое означает современные удобства, а также удобства или объекты, инфраструктуры, то есть это специальное оборудование или помещение. И еще одно словосочетание, означающее магазин у дома, круглосуточный магазин или мини-маркет. 32. Конвиниент – This is an adjective. The opposite of convenient is inconvenient. 33. Inconvenient – The adverb is conveniently. And the noun – удобство, польза. 34. Convenience – современные удобства. Это объекты, инфраструктуры, специальное оборудование или помещение. Modern conveniences, convenience facilities, convenience store. And a convenience store, a convenience store. Convenient means easy to use or helpful. Inconvenient means not easy to use or causing problems. Conveniently – the adverb means in a way that is easy or helpful. A convenience – the noun – is something that makes life easier or more comfortable. Modern conveniences are features or devices that make life nowadays easier. Convenience facilities are services or equipment that make a place comfortable. And a convenience store is a small shop where you can buy everyday things near home. Here are some examples. A drawback of offline classes is that they are usually not as convenient as online classes. If you choose to take an offline class, you won't be able to change the time of your lessons and you'll have to stick to a schedule. One-on-one online lessons, on the other hand, can be scheduled when it is convenient for both the student and the teacher. If you choose to take online lessons, you'll be able to schedule lessons when it is convenient for you. Please write down the expression convenience facilities. How do you spell convenience? It's convenience. And the word facilities is spelled as facilities. Write down the translation. Please write down the translation.
