 1. Изучение иностранных языков развивает когнитивные способности. Just listen the first time. Learning foreign languages develops your cognitive abilities. Note the s in the third person singular develops. Now listen and repeat. 2. Иностранные языки развивают когнитивные способности. It develops your cognitive abilities. In other words, it boosts your intellectual skills. You can also say that it improves your thinking. It improves your thinking and reasoning skills. It improves your mental capacities and analytical abilities. It enhances your problem solving skills. It makes you better at problem solving. It increases your capacity for learning. Please write down. It develops your cognitive abilities. How do you spell develops? It develops your cognitive abilities. How do you spell cognitive? And what's the spelling of abilities? It develops your cognitive abilities. Once again, it develops your cognitive abilities. 2. Изучение языков улучшает память. Just listen. Learning foreign languages improves your memory. Now listen and repeat. It improves. Use connected speech. Don't forget the Z at the end of improves. It improves your memory. It improves your memory. In other words, it enhances your memory. It helps you to remember things better. Note that after the verb help, you can use either the two infinitive or just the base form of the verb. So you can say it helps you to remember or it helps you remember. Either form is acceptable and they can be used interchangeably. So the two infinitive is a little bit more formal, slightly more formal. And the base form, it helps you remember, is a little bit more colloquial. Please write down. Write down. It improves your memory. How do you spell improves? It's spelled as I-M-P-R-O-V-E-S. It improves your memory. 3. Изучение языков помогает преуспеть математике. Use the verb enhance. Listen. It enhances your performance in math. Note the third person singular enhances. And note the two variants in pronunciation. The British enhances and maths with an S at the end. And the American variant enhances and math. So Americans tend to drop the S in maths. So it's just math. Listen and repeat. Performance. Performance in math. Watch your interdentals. The TH. Mouth. Mouth. In math. And use connected speech. It enhances. It enhances your performance in maths. In other words, it improves your math skills. It helps you to excel in maths. It boosts your problem solving skills and analytical abilities. Please write down. It enhances your performance in math. Or in maths. How do you spell enhances? It's spelled out as E-N-H-A-N-C-E-S. Note that the verb spell, to spell something letter by letter, has two forms in the past simple and past participle. So it can be an E-D form spelled with an E-D at the end or spelled with a T at the end. How do you spell performance? Performance is spelled as P-E-R-F-O-R-M-A-N-C-E. Once again, it enhances your performance in maths. Four. Повышает общую успеваемость в школе. Use the verb boost. Listen. It boosts your overall academic performance. Note the third person singular boosts. It boosts. Listen and repeat. The long OO sound sounds similar to the diphthong O, but this change is more gradual and less pronounced. It's OO boosts. It's a sound that's between the Russian sounds E and OO. Repeat the diphthong O. The stress is on the last syllable. Your overall academic performance. It boosts your overall academic performance. It boosts your overall academic performance. In other words, it helps you to do well at school. Once again, the verb help can be followed either by the base form of the verb or the to infinitive. So it helps you do well at school or it helps you to do well at school. The to infinitive is slightly more formal. So it helps you do well at school. It improves your academic performance in general. Overall in general is a synonym for overall. It improves your performance in all school subjects across the board. Across the board means everywhere or all subjects. It's useful for school studies. It helps you to excel in school subjects. Please write down. It boosts your overall academic performance. Boosts is spelled with double O. And what's the spelling of overall? It's O-V-E-R-A-double L. It boosts your academic performance. Academic with letter C at the end. Five. Развивает творческие способности. Use the verb enhance. Just listen. It enhances your creativity. Remember the third person singular. Enhances. And remember to use connected speech. It enhances. Listen and repeat. It enhances your creativity. In other words, it makes you more creative. It boosts your creativity. You can also say that it sparks your imagination.
 6. Увеличивает продолжительность концентрации внимания. Use the verb increase. Listen. It increases your attention span. Note that in Russian we tend to drop the your. It increases your attention span. Whereas in English a possessive pronoun is commonly used such as your or ones to mean anybody's attention span in general. So it increases your attention span or it increases ones. One, o, n, e, в данном случае это не один, а местоимение чей-либо. Or you can use an article. It increases the attention span. So either it increases your attention span, it increases ones attention span or it increases the attention span. Listen and repeat. Increases. Again remember that the first s is pronounced as a unvoiced s, increases, not the, but the last s at the end is pronounced as a voiced z. Increases. It increases your attention span. In other words, it helps you to concentrate. It helps you focus. It enhances your attention and focus. It improves your ability to focus. Please write down. It increases your attention span. How do you spell increases? It's i n c r e a s e s. And what's the spelling of attention? It's spelled as a double t e n t i o n. Seven. Изучение языков повышает уверенность. Make. Just listen the first time. It makes you more confident. Remember the third person singular. Makes. Listen and repeat. It makes you more confident. In other words, it boosts your confidence. It increases your confidence. It boosts your self-esteem. It encourages you to take on new challenges. Please write down. It makes you more confident. Once again, it makes you more confident. Eight. Дословный перевод улучшает вашу социальную жизнь. По-русски мы, наверное, скорее бы, не знаем, по-русски мы, наверное, скорее бы, сказали, обогащают ваши общения или помогают достичь большего успеха в обществе. Use the verb enhance. Listen. It enhances your social life. Listen and repeat. Oh. So. Show. Remember to make the s more of a... шепелявый, more of a s-s-s quality. The sh is softer in English. And also remember to pronounce the diphthong clearly. So. So. Not so. But oh. So. Social. Social life. It enhances your social life. In other words, it enriches your social life. It improves your social interaction. It helps you to meet more people and make new friends. Please write down. It enhances your social life. Once again, it enhances your social life. Nine. Улучшает ваши коммуникативные навыки. Use the verb to improve. Listen. Learning foreign languages improves your communication skills. Listen and repeat. Improves. It improves. Use connected speech. It improves. It improves your communication skills. In other words, it enhances your communication skills. It makes you better at communication. It helps you to communicate with people. It helps you to interact with more people. Please write down. It improves your communication skills. How do you spell communication? It's spelled as C-O-M-M-U-N-I-C-A-T-I-O-N. It improves your communication skills. Ten. Полезно в путешествии за границу. It's useful for traveling abroad. Note the pronunciation of abroad, so the O-A are pronounced as a single long O sound, abroad. Note the pronunciation of useful, so in the adjective useful and in the noun use the S is pronounced as a voiceless S. Useful. It's useful for traveling abroad. It's useful for traveling abroad. In other words, it enhances your travel experiences. It makes traveling abroad easier. It helps you when you travel to a foreign country. Please write down. It's useful for traveling abroad. How do you spell useful? It's U-S-E-F-U-L. Just a single L at the end. Whereas in traveling you can use the double L or the single L spelling. The British spelling is with a double L. V-E-double L-I-N-G. And the American spelling is just with a single L. Abroad there is an O-A in the second syllable. It's useful for traveling abroad.
 11. Позволяет читать книги в оригинале. Use the verb to allow. Listen. It allows you to read books in the original. Remember the third person singular allows. Listen and repeat. It allows. It allows you to read books in the original. Remember that the article the is pronounced as the before vowels so the original. In the original. It allows you to read books in the original. In other words it makes it possible to read authentic texts. Please write down. It allows you to read books in the original. How do you spell allows? It's spelled as A-L-L-O-W-S. It allows you to read books in the original. 12. It's useful for your career. It's useful for your career. It helps you at work. It helps you to find a good job. It opens up career opportunities. Please write down. It's useful for your career. Remember that useful is spelled with a single L at the end and career has a double E. It's useful for your career. 13. It allows you to interact with more people. Use the verb to allow. Listen. It allows you to interact with more people. Listen and repeat. It allows. It allows you to interact with more people. Watch your interdental S in with. Once again it's with more people. To interact with more people. It allows you to interact with more people. In other words it allows you to meet more people. It helps you to connect with more people from various cultural backgrounds. Please write down. It allows you to interact with more people. How do you spell allows? It's A-L-L-O-W-S. It allows you to interact with more people. 14. It increases your cultural awareness. Use the verb to increase. Just listen the first time. Learning foreign languages increases your cultural awareness. Once again it increases your cultural awareness. Remember the third person singular increases. Listen and repeat. It increases your cultural awareness. In other words it allows you to learn more about other cultures. It helps you to understand other cultures better. It helps you to connect with people from various cultural backgrounds. Please write down. It increases your cultural awareness. How do you spell increases? It's I-N-C-R-E-A-S-E-S. How do you spell cultural? It's C-U-T-U-R-A-L. Note that letter U has two different variants and pronunciation in this word. The first U is pronounced as an A-C-U-L-T-U-R-A-L. And the second U is unstressed. Culture. How do you spell awareness? It's A-W-A-R-E-N-E-W-S. It increases your cultural awareness. Fifteen. It helps to improve the skills of oral and written speech in the native language. It literally improves the skills of the native language. Use the verb to enhance. Just listen the first time. Learning foreign languages enhances your native tongue skills. Listen and repeat. Enhances. It enhances your native tongue. Make sure that the tip of your tongue is at the bottom where your bottom teeth are and the back part of the tongue is touching the soft palate. The back of the tongue touches the soft palate. Inhale and exhale through your nose. The tip of the tongue is at the bottom of the lower teeth. Native. Native tongue. It enhances your native tongue skills. In other words, it improves your native language skills. It enhances your understanding of your own language. Please write down. It enhances your native tongue skills. It enhances your native tongue. How do you spell tongue? It's spelt as T-O-N-G-U-E. It enhances your native tongue skills.
 16. Помогает поддерживать здоровье мозга. 2-инфинитива более формальна. Это помогает поддерживать здоровье мозга. Посмотри на ваши интродентали в «хелфи» «хел-фи-фи» «хелфи» Или можно просто сказать «это поддерживает здоровье мозга». В любом случае, это поддерживает здоровье мозга. Это защищает мозг. Пожалуйста, писите, что это помогает поддерживать здоровье мозга. Пожалуйста, поставьте переносы вокруг 2. Частицу 2. Пожалуйста, возьмите скобочки. Это помогает поддерживать здоровье мозга. 17. Развивает наблюдательность и повышает чуткость. Дословно, делает вас более чуткими. Пользуй ворб «мейк». Просто послушайте. Это делает вас более персептифи. Послушайте и повторите. Персептифи. Это делает вас более персептифи. В любом случае, это делает вас лучше наблюдателя вашего оборота. Это делает вас платить за малые детали. Это делает вас более чувствительными к нюансам и субтитрах языка. Это улучшает вашу чувству слышания и вашу персептифи в общем. Пожалуйста, писайте. Это делает вас более персептифи. Как вы называете персептифи? Это персептифи. Это делает вас более персептифи. 18. Помогает в процессе принятия решения или осуществления выбора. Дословно помогает принимать хорошие или обдуманные решения. Это помогает вам сделать лучше решения. Послушайте и повторите. Де-сиженс. Это помогает вам сделать лучше решения. Она есть. В敢 Thankfully, you can say it helps you make better decisions or make better decisions. Это помогает в пред Diplomat clam. Please put parentheses around to. Частичку to заключить в скобочке. And how do you spell decisions? The spelling is DECISIONS. It helps you make better decisions. Nineteen. Образ мышления. В английском языке это может быть устойчивым выражением. A way of thinking. Listen and repeat. A way. Make sure you're not substituting the labial W sound with a labiodental V. So labial means you're using both lips but not your teeth. WAY OF. And the word of, the F, is pronounced as a voiced V sound. And it's pronounced as one word. Use connected speech. WAY OF. Okay, the O is pronounced as an unstressed O. WAY OF. Listen. A way of. Once again, listen and repeat. A way of. Watch your intrudentals, the TH. TH. Thinking. THING-king. The N in the word THING is not pronounced. It's the nasal sound. The tip of your tongue is at the bottom. THING. And the soft K THING-king. A way of. Watch your intrudentals. THING-king. Once again. A way of THING-king. In other words, it's one's mindset, a person's mindset, a mentality, or one's attitude. One is a pronoun. One is not one, but a person's name. In this case it's not one, not a person's name, but a person's name, someone's way of thinking. One's mindset or attitude. How do you spell attitude? It's a-double-t-i-t-u-d-e. So a way of thinking is one's mindset or attitude. Twenty. Помогает понять менталитет людей из другой культурной среды. Просто послушайте за первую раз. Это помогает понять менталитет людей из другой культурной среды. Обратите внимание на использование слова менталитет. Менталитет обычно означает характеристика группы, а не целый группа людей из другой культуры. Минсет более личный. Это про один человек's way of thinking or beliefs. Аттитут обычно означает специфическую ситуацию. Какая тему или опыта на определенную вопросу или субъект. Минсет более широкий и в общем. Это целый сет аттитутов или вероятных, которые создают мнение индивидуалов. Обычно мы говорим о минсете одного человека. Минсет это сет аттитутов или вероятных для целого группы людей. Послушайте и повторите. Культурный сет. Минсет людей из другой культурной среды. Это помогает понять менталитет людей из другой культурной среды. В общем, это позволяет нам связаться с людьми из всего мира. Вербь кинет и это означает, что это помогает нам понять друг друга, создать репорт. Пожалуйста, писите. Это помогает понять менталитет людей из другой культурной среды. Это помогает понять... Пишите по перенесению обоих. Возьмите с кубочки. Менталитет. Как это называется? Менталитет. Менталитет людей из другой культурной среды. Среда. Это помогает понять менталитет людей из другой культурной среды. И писите по перенесению обоих. Это позволяет нам... А, Л, Л, О, В, С. Это позволяет нам связаться с людьми из всего мира. Это позволяет нам связаться с людьми из всего мира.
 21. Позволяет учиться за границей. Use the verb to allow. It allows you to study abroad. Note that in English the verb to allow must always be followed by an object, so to allow someone to do something, you can't just say it allows, it allows you or someone. Remember the pronunciation of abroad, the o-a are pronounced as a single vowel, o-a-broad. It allows you to study abroad. In other words, it gives you an opportunity to get into college or university in another country. It gives you a chance to continue your studies in another country. Please write down, it allows you to study abroad. 22. Расширяет словарный запас. Use the verb to expand. It expands your vocabulary. Listen and repeat, expands. It expands your vocabulary. You can also say that it enriches your vocabulary. Or in other words, it helps you to learn more words. Please write down, it expands your vocabulary. How do you spell expands? It's spelled as e-x-p-a-n-d-s. It expands your vocabulary. 23. Улучшает способность выполнять несколько задач одновременно. Use the verb to improve. Learning foreign languages improves your ability to multitask. Note the two variants in the pronunciation of multitask. So, the task, multitask is the British, and the a-pronunciation, multitask is American. The u is pronounced as an a-multi-multitask. It improves your ability to multitask. In other words, it makes you better at managing several tasks at the same time. Please write down, it improves your ability to multitask. Once again, it improves your ability to multitask. 24. Для того чтобы улучшить что-либо. In order to improve something, this is a conjunction. 25. И отрицательная форма для того чтобы не делать что-либо. In order not to do something, the synonym is so as to. The negative form is so as not to. So as to can be used at the beginning of the sentence, like in order to, but more often than not it's in the middle. So, for example, in order to improve your English speaking skills, I recommend joining a speaking club. Or, I recommend joining a speaking club so as to improve your speaking skills. Please write down, in order not to. Put the not in parenthesis. Write the translation для того чтобы не в скобочках. And also write down the synonym so as not to. Put the parenthesis around not. So as not to. In order to, or in order not to. 25. Я бы посоветовал ему или ей посещать разговорный клуб. Дословно записаться или присоединиться. And use the verb to recommend. I recommend that he or she join a speaking club. Remember that recommend is followed by that clause, which begins with this subject. So she or he. And then use the subjunctive, which is the base form of the verb. So it's join. Just join. She join, he join, they join. I recommend that. That is optional. So you can drop that. You can say I recommend she join or I recommend that she join. I recommend that she join a speaking club. In other words, I recommend that he or she take part in a speaking club. Or simply I recommend joining a speaking club. Please write down the sentence. I recommend that she or he join a speaking club. Put that in parentheses. Take the words with brackets. So you can say either way. I recommend that she join or I recommend she join a speaking club.
 26. Я бы посоветовал им посещать дополнительные занятия. I'd recommend that they take extra classes. Listen and repeat. I'd recommend that they take extra classes. So that is optional. You can say I'd recommend they take extra classes or I'd recommend that they take extra classes. Another way of saying this is I'd suggest they sign up for extra classes or I'd recommend enrolling in an additional course or I'd recommend taking some extra classes. Please write down the sentence. I'd recommend that they take extra classes. I'd in the parentheses write I would. I'd recommend that they take extra classes. I'd recommend that they take extra classes. 27. Я бы предложил скачать хорошее приложение для изучения языков. Just listen. I'd suggest downloading a good language learning app. Focus on the sound on the short O in good so it's not O. The short O is a sound that's between the Russian O and O closer to O probably O O O and the G is softer G G good good a good language learning app I'd suggest downloading a good language learning app another word another way of phrasing this idea is to say that I would recommend finding a special program for learning languages or I'd suggest getting a good app for learning languages please write down the sentence I'd suggest downloading a good language learning I'd suggest is spelled as SUWG EST downloading a good language learning app app with a double P I'd suggest downloading a good language learning app the contracted verb in I'd is would I would suggest 28. А также это союз. As well as this is a conjunction. Please make sure that you do not devoise the S at the end of as so it's as as and make sure you're not substituting the label W with a labio dental of what both lips use both lips to say what do not incorporate your teeth as well as as well as a synonym for as well as is and or in addition to together with and along with here's an example sentence learning foreign languages helps us to understand other cultures better as well as our own culture and way of thinking please write down as well as and write down the translation attention 29 однако тем не менее вместе с тем это наречие however however is an adverb наречием when you pronounce however split it up into two parts the first one is how so the OW is pronounced as a diphthong owl and then the ever part how ever how ever however however a synonym for however is but so it's used to show a contrast or difference with what was said before here's an example I'd like to take up Chinese however I'm afraid that it might be too difficult please write down however and how do you spell that it's H O W E V E R and write down the translation однако 30 различные это прилагательная а также однокоренную существительная разнообразие и устойчивое словосочетание большое разнообразие например мероприятий listen and repeat various various is an adjective the noun is a variety variety and the expression is a great variety of activities but sure is an abrasive of a great variety of activities so please use connected speech variety of variety of activities variety of activities a great variety of activities so various means different kinds or types of something and the phrase a great variety of activities means that there is a large number of different activities or things here are some examples speaking of our English lessons at school there is a great variety of activities that we engage in such as reading articles listening to audio recordings writing letters and essays completing various grammar exercises and practicing our speaking skills and another example learning foreign languages allows us to connect with people from various cultural backgrounds please write down various how do you spell various it's V A R I O U S write down the translation различные
 31. Проявлять уважение и интерес к другим культурам. Это устойчивое словосочетание. Вот пример. 32. У меня позитивная атесть к изучению 외ских языков. Я считаю, что делая это, мы показываем уважение к другим культурам. 33. Пожалуйста, писите на фоне. 34. Показать уважение к другим культурам. 32. Из другой культурной среды. Это устойчивое словосочетание. 35. Из другого культурного сетчатого сетчата. 36. Учиться по традиции, которые отличаются от традиций в своем стране. 37. Учиться по традиции, которые отличаются от традиций в своем стране. 38. Учиться по традиции, которые отличаются от традиций в своем стране. 39. Совершенно точно. Несомненно. 40. Мост. Certainly. 40. Мост. Certainly. 41. Пожалуйста, писите на фоне. 42. Пожалуйста, писите на фоне. 43. Пишите на фоне. 44. Награда существительная. 45. Наградить. 46. Наградить. 47. Награда существительная. 48. Награда существительная. 49. Награда существительная. 50. Награда существительная. 51. Награда существительная. 52. Награда существительная. 53. Награда существительная. 54. Судьба. 55. Счастливый. 56. Счастливый. 57. Счастливый. 58. Пожалуйста, писите на фоне. 59. Как вы спелырите на фоне? 60. Добавьте приставку UN в прерыве. 60. Пишите на фоне.
 36. Дополнение к этому. Это фраза связка. In addition to that. What you're into dentals. That. In addition to that. So this is a linking expression to add more information. Some synonyms are moreover, furthermore, to add to that and additionally. All of these words and expressions are used as linkers. Here's an example. And write down the translation. Дополнение к этому. За исключением, помимо, кроме. So it's two words. Apart and from. Apart from. Apart from is synonymous to except for or other than. These function as prepositions. So when it comes to using English outside the class, unfortunately, I don't use it much apart from completing my English homework assignments and watching English videos in the original. Please write down apart from. Apart from and write down the synonym. How do you spell except? It's E-X-C-E-P-T. Except for. Write the translation. За исключением, помимо, кроме. Лично. Лично я, например. Лично. Лично. Синонимы для личного значения, как для меня или для себя, означают, что они связаны с тобой и не с другим. И еще одно значение лично в моем мнении или в моей мнении. Так что вы используете это, чтобы дать мнение. Лично я учился английский с моего второго года в школе. Так что в этом примере лично означает, что ты говоришь о себе. Как для меня или для себя, я учился английского с моего второго года в школе. И вот второй пример. Лично я верю, что мы учимся на других языках, и мы показываем нашу априация другим культурам. Так что в этом случае лично означает, как для меня или для себя. Пожалуйста, писите лично. Как вы это называете лично? П-и-р-с-о-н-а-дабл-л-л-й И писите какие-то синонимы. Как для меня. И в моем мнении. Лично. Я изучаю английский с тех пор как... Я изучаю английский с тех пор как... Я изучаю английский с детства. Я изучаю английский с моего второго года в школе. Я изучаю английский с 2 года в школе. Я, это короткая форма для «я». Я изучаю. Я изучаю. Другой способ сказать это, это... Я изучаю английский с тех пор как... Я изучаю английский с последних 6 или 7 лет. Лично я изучаю английский с моего второго года в школе. Как для меня или для себя. Я изучаю английский с 2 года в школе. Когда говорим о классе, 1, 2, 3 класс, американцы говорят «град», 1, 2, 3 класс. Британский использует слово «год». Класса подсобена для вашего класса. Класс это уже там класс, например, 9th B or 10th I. И для «град» британский обычно использует слово «яр» или «форма». «Форма» это как-то старый стиль, и это немного более формально. Так что вы слышите, что люди используют слово «яр» много. Например, второй класс, они скажут это второй год обучения. Второй год. И как правило, добавляется еще притяжательное месторемение «мой», мой второй год обучения в школе, my second year at school, или же год два, year two, since year two at school. С детства. Через косую черту, slash, my second year at school, со второго класса, my second year at school, slash, косая черта, year two at school, принято писать второй класс, если он сформулирует как year, сначала потом two, с большой буквы. Year с большой буквы, capital Y E A R, and capital T in two. So I've been learning English since childhood, I've been learning English since my second year at school, I've been learning English since year two at school. And last but not least, forty. Как долго ты изучаешь английский? Это вопрос. Listen and repeat. How long have you been learning English? Note the N G in long is the nasal sound, we do not say the N nor the G. The tip of your tongue is at the bottom, кончик языка внизу, у нижних зубов, and the back part of your tongue is up against the soft palate. Спинка языка касается мягкого неба, звук как бы в горнышке, inhale and exhale through your nose, inhale and exhale through your nose, дох и выдох через нос. Long. How long? How long have you been learning English? Use connected speech, long have. How long have? How long have you been learning English? You can also use the past simple to ask this question, When did you start studying foreign languages? But in this case we start with the word when, когда ты начал обучаться иностранным языкам. When did you start studying foreign languages? Please write down the question. How long have you been learning English? This question uses the present perfect. So to talk about a period of time that started in the past, but is continuing up until now. Once again, how long have you been learning English? How long have you been learning English?
