 1. Изучение иностранных языков развивает когнитивные способности. Just listen the first time. Learning foreign languages develops your cognitive abilities. Note the S in the third person singular develops. Now listen and repeat. Cognitive abilities Learning foreign languages develops your cognitive abilities. It develops your cognitive abilities. In other words, it boosts your intellectual skills. You can also say that it improves your thinking. It improves your thinking and reasoning skills. It improves your mental capacities and analytical abilities. It enhances your problem solving skills. It makes you better at problem solving. It increases your capacity for learning. Please write down. It develops your cognitive abilities. How do you spell develops? It's D-E-V-E-L-O-P-S. How do you spell cognitive? It's C-O-G-N-I-T-I-V-E. And what's the spelling of abilities? It's A-B-I-L-I-T-I-E-S. Once again, it develops your cognitive abilities. Two. Изучение языков улучшает память. Just listen. Learning foreign languages improves your memory. Now listen and repeat. It improves. Use connected speech. Don't forget the Z at the end of improves. It improves your memory. In other words, it enhances your memory. It helps you to remember things better. Please note that after the verb help, you can use either the two infinitive or just the base form of the verb. So you can say it helps you to remember or it helps you remember. Either form is acceptable and they can be used interchangeably. So the two infinitive is a little bit more formal, slightly more formal. And the base form, it helps you remember is a little bit more colloquial. Please write down. It improves your memory. How do you spell improves? It's spelt as I-M-P-R-O-V-E-S. It improves your memory. Three. Изучение языков помогает преуспеть математике. Use the verb enhance. Listen. It enhances your performance in math. Note the third person singular enhances. And note the two variants in pronunciation. The British enhances and maths with an S at the end. And the American variant enhances and math. So Americans tend to drop the S in maths. So it's just math. Listen and repeat. Performance. Performance in math. Watch your interdentals. The T-H-th. Ma-th. In math. And use connected speech. It enhances. It enhances your performance in maths. In other words, it improves your math skills. It helps you to excel in maths. It boosts your problem-solving skills and analytical abilities. Please write down. It enhances your performance in math. Or in maths. How do you spell enhances? It's spelled out as E-N-H-A-N-C-E-S. Note that the verb spell, to spell something letter by letter, has two forms in the past simple and past participle. So it can be an E-D form spelled with an E-D at the end or spelled with a T at the end. How do you spell performance? Performance is spelled as P-E-R-F-O-R-M-A-N-C-E. Once again, it enhances your performance in maths. Four. Повышает общую успеваемость в школе. Use the verb boost. Listen. It boosts your overall academic performance. Note the third person singular boosts. It boosts. Listen and repeat. Oh. Boosts. The long OO sound sounds similar to the diphthong O, but this change is more gradual and less pronounced. So it's OO, OO, boosts. It's a sound that's between the Russian sounds E and OO. OO, boosts. Repeat the diphthong O. Overall. The stress is on the last syllable. Overall. Your overall. Your overall academic performance. It boosts. Your overall. Your overall academic performance. It boosts your overall academic performance. In other words, it helps you to do well at school. Once again, the verb help can be followed either by the base form of the verb or the to infinitive. So it helps you do well at school or it helps you to do well at school. The to infinitive is slightly more formal. So it helps you do well at school. It improves your academic performance in general. In general is a synonym for overall. It improves your performance in all school subjects across the board. Across the board means everywhere or all subjects. It's useful for school studies. It helps you to excel in school subjects. Please write down. It boosts your overall academic performance. Boosts is spelled with double O. And what's the spelling of overall? It's O, V, E, R, A, double L. It boosts your academic performance. Academic with letter C at the end. Five. Развивает творческие способности. Use the verb enhance. Just listen. It enhances your creativity. Remember the third person singular. Enhances. And remember to use connected speech. It enhances. Listen and repeat. It enhances your creativity. In other words, it makes you more creative. It boosts your creativity. You can also say that it sparks your imagination.
 6. Увеличивает продолжительность концентрации внимания. Use the verb increase. Listen. It increases your attention span. Note that in Russian we tend to drop the your. Можно сказать увеличивает вашу продолжительность концентрации внимания, но скорее всего мы просто скажем увеличивает продолжительность концентрации внимания. Whereas in English a possessive pronoun is commonly used such as your or ones to mean anybody's attention span in general. So it increases your attention span or it increases one's. One, o, n, e в данном случае это не один, а местоимение чей-либо. Or you can use an article. It increases the attention span. So either it increases your attention span, it increases one's attention span, or it increases the attention span. Listen and repeat. Increases. Again, remember that the first s is pronounced as a unvoiced s. Increase s, not z. But the last s at the end is pronounced as a voiced z. Increases. It increases your attention span. In other words, it helps you to concentrate. It helps you focus. It enhances your attention and focus. It improves your ability to focus. Please write down. It increases your attention span. How do you spell increases? It's i n c r e a s e s. And what's the spelling of attention? It's spelled as a double t e n t i o n. Seven. Изучение языков повышает уверенность. Use the verb make. Just listen the first time. It makes you more confident. Remember the third person singular, makes. Listen and repeat. It makes you more confident. In other words, it boosts your confidence. It increases your confidence. It boosts your self-esteem. It encourages you to take on new challenges. Please write down. It makes you more confident. Once again, it makes you more confident. Eight. Дословный перевод улучшает вашу социальную жизнь. По-русски мы, наверное, скорее бы сказали, обогащают ваше общение или помогают достичь большего успеха в обществе. Use the verb enhance. Listen. It enhances your social life. Listen and repeat. Oh. So. Show. Remember to make the s more of a... шепелявый, more of a s-s-s quality. The sh is softer in English. And also remember to pronounce the diphthong clearly. So. So. Not so. But oh. So. Social. Social life. It enhances your social life. In other words, it enriches your social life. It improves your social interaction. It helps you to meet more people and make new friends. Please write down. It enhances your social life. Once again, it enhances your social life. Nine. Улучшает ваши коммуникативные навыки. Use the verb to improve. Listen. Learning foreign languages improves your communication skills. Listen and repeat. Improves. It improves. Use connected speech. It improves. It improves your communication skills. In other words, it enhances your communication skills. It makes you better at communication. It helps you to communicate with people. It helps you to interact with more people. Please write down. It improves your communication skills. How do you spell communication? It's spelled as C-O-M-M-U-N-I-C-A-T-I-O-N. It improves your communication skills. Ten. Полезно в путешествии за границу. It's useful for traveling abroad. Note the pronunciation of abroad, so the O-A are pronounced as a single long O sound, abroad. Note the pronunciation of useful, so in the adjective useful and in the noun use the S is pronounced as a voiceless S. Useful. It's useful for traveling abroad. It's useful for traveling abroad. In other words, it enhances your travel experiences. It makes traveling abroad easier. It helps you when you travel to a foreign country. Please write down. It's useful for traveling abroad. How do you spell useful? It's U-S-E-F-U-L. Just a single L at the end. Whereas in traveling you can use the double L or the single L spelling. The British spelling is with a double L. V-E-double L-I-N-G. And the American spelling is just with a single L. Abroad there is an O-A in the second syllable. It's useful for traveling abroad.
 11. Позволяет читать книги в оригинале. Use the verb to allow. Listen. It allows you to read books in the original. Remember the third person singular allows. Listen and repeat. It allows. It allows you to read books in the original. Remember that the article the is pronounced as the before vowels so the original. 12. In the original. It allows you to read books in the original. In other words, it makes it possible to read authentic texts. Please write down. It allows you to read books in the original. How do you spell allows? It's spelled as A-double-L-O-double-U-S. It allows you to read books in the original. 12. Learning languages is useful for your career. Listen. It's useful for your career. Remember that pronunciation of letter S in useful. It's an unvoiced S. Useful. It's useful for your career. It helps you at work. It helps you to find a good job. It opens up career opportunities. Please write down. It's useful for your career. Remember that useful is spelled with a single L at the end and career has a double E. It's useful for your career. 13. It allows you to interact with more people. Use the verb to allow. Listen. It allows you to interact with more people. Listen and repeat. It allows. It allows you to interact with more people. Watch your interdentals in with. Once again, it's with. With more people. 14. To interact with more people. It allows you to interact with more people. In other words, it allows you to meet more people. It helps you to connect with more people from various cultural backgrounds. Please write down. It allows you to interact with more people. How do you spell allows? It's A-L-L-O-W-S. It allows you to interact with more people. 14. It increases your cultural awareness. Use the verb to increase. Just listen the first time. Learning foreign languages increases your cultural awareness. Once again, it increases your cultural awareness. Remember the third person singular increases. Listen and repeat. It increases your cultural awareness. It increases your cultural awareness. In other words, it allows you to learn more about other cultures. It helps you to understand other cultures better. It helps you to connect with people from various cultural backgrounds. Please write down. It increases your cultural awareness. How do you spell increases? It's I-N-C-R-E-A-S-E-S. And how do you spell cultural? It's C-U-T-U-R-A-L. Note that letter U has two different variants and pronunciation in this word. So the first U is pronounced as an U-C-U-L-T-U-R. And the second U is unstressed U-C-U-L-T-U-R-C-U-L-T-U-R-A-W-A-R-E-N-E-S. It increases your cultural awareness. Fifteen. Use the verb to enhance. Just listen the first time. Learning foreign languages enhances your native tongue skills. Listen and repeat. Enhances. It enhances your native tongue. Make sure that the tip of your tongue is at the bottom where your bottom teeth are. And the back part of the tongue is touching the soft palate. Inhale and exhale through your nose. The tip of the tongue is at the bottom of your lower teeth. It enhances your understanding of your own language. Please write them. It enhances your native tongue skills. It enhances your native tongue. How do you spell tongue? It's spelled as T-O-N-G-U-E. It enhances your native tongue skills.
 16. Помогает поддерживать здоровье мозга. Два инфинитива немного более формальны. Это помогает поддерживать здоровье мозга. Посмотри на ваши интродентали в «хелфи» Или можно просто сказать, что это поддерживает здоровье мозга. В любом случае, это поддерживает здоровье мозга. Это защищает мозг. Пожалуйста, писите, что это помогает поддерживать здоровье мозга. Пожалуйста, поставьте переносы около 2. Частицу 2. Пожалуйста, возьмите скобочки. Это помогает поддерживать здоровье мозга. 17. Развивает наблюдательность и повышает чуткость. Дословно, делает вас более чуткими. Пользуй ворб «мейк». Просто послушайте. Это делает вас более персептивными. Послушайте и повторите. Персептивные. Это делает вас более персептивными. В любом случае, это делает вас лучше наблюдателем вашей области. Это делает вас платить особое внимание на маленькие детали. Это делает вас более сенситивными к нюансам и субтитрах языка. Это улучшает вашу сенсу слышания и вашу персептическую сенситивность в общем. Пожалуйста, писайте. Это делает вас более персептивными. Как вы называете персептическую сенситивность? Это P-E-R-C-E-P-T-I-V-E. Это делает вас более персептивными. 18. Помогает в процессе принятия решения или осуществления выбора. Дословно помогает принимать хорошие или обдуманные решения. It helps you to make better decisions. Listen and repeat. Decisions. It helps you to make better decisions. Remember the two is optional. You can say it helps you make better decisions or it helps you to make better decisions. In other words, it makes you a better decision maker. It enhances your decision making. It improves your decision making. Please write down. It helps you to make better decisions. Please put parenthesis around 2. Частичку 2 заключите в скобочке. And how do you spell decisions? The spelling is D-E-C-I-S-I-O-N-S. It helps you make better decisions. 19. Образ мышления. В английском языке это может быть устойчивым выражением. A way of thinking. Listen and repeat. A way. Make sure you're not substituting the labial W sound with a labiodental V. So labial means you're using both lips but not your teeth. W-way of. And the word of, the F, is pronounced as a voiced V sound. And it's pronounced as one word. Use connected speech. Way of. Okay, the O is pronounced as an unstressed O. Way of. Listen. A way of. Once again, listen and repeat. A way of. Watch your intrudentals, the TH. TH. Thinking. The N in the word think is not pronounced. It's the nasal sound. The tip of your tongue is at the bottom. THING. And the soft K. Thinking. So, a way of. Watch your intrudentals. Thinking. Once again, a way of thinking. In other words, it's one's mindset, a person's mindset, a mentality, or one's attitude. One is a pronoun. Here's an example. Learning foreign languages helps us understand other cultures better, as well as our own culture and way of thinking. Please write down a way of thinking and write down two synonyms. One's mindset. One's is O-N-E apostrophe S. One's. So, one's mindset or attitude. How do you spell attitude? It's A-T-T-I-T-U-D-E. So, a way of thinking is one's mindset or attitude. TWENTY. Just listen the first time. It helps to understand the mentality of people from a different cultural background. Note the use of the word mentality. So, mentality usually refers to a trait or a characteristic of a group for a whole group of people from a certain culture. Whereas mindset is more personal. It's about one person's way of thinking or their beliefs. Attitude refers usually to a specific situation, like what is your attitude or what is your opinion on a specific question or subject. The word mindset is more broad and general. It's a whole set of attitudes or beliefs that shape an individual's thinking. Usually we're talking about the mindset of one person. And then mentality is a set of beliefs or a way of thinking for a whole group of people. Listen and repeat. Cultural background. The mentality of people from a different cultural background. It helps to understand the mentality of people from a different cultural background. In other words, it allows us to connect with people from all over the world. The verb connect in this sentence helps us to understand each other, to build rapport. Please write down. It helps to understand the mentality of people from a different cultural background. It helps to understand, put the parenthesis around the two, the mentality. How do you spell mentality? It's M E N T A L I T Y. The mentality of people from a different cultural background. It helps to understand the mentality of people from a different cultural background. And write down the synonymous expression. It allows us. A double L O W S allows. It allows us to connect with people from all over the world. It allows us to connect with people from all over the world.
 21. Позволяет учиться за границей. Use the verb to allow. It allows you to study abroad. Note that in English the verb to allow must always be followed by an object, so to allow someone to do something, you can't just say it allows, that is, you can't just say it allows to study abroad, it must necessarily allow to whom, allows you, allows him, allows us to study abroad. In English it allows you or someone. Remember the pronunciation of abroad, the o-a are pronounced as a single vowel, o-a-broad. It allows you to study abroad. In other words, it gives you an opportunity to get into college or university in another country. It gives you a chance to continue your studies in another country. Please write down, it allows you to study abroad. It allows you to study abroad. 22. Расширяет словарный запас. Use the verb to expand. It expands your vocabulary. Listen and repeat, expands. It expands your vocabulary. You can also say that it enriches your vocabulary, or in other words, it helps you to learn more words. Please write down, it expands your vocabulary. How do you spell expands? It's spelled as e-x-p-a-n-d-s. It expands your vocabulary. 23. Улучшает способность выполнять несколько задач одновременно. Use the verb to improve. Learning foreign languages improves your ability to multitask. Note the two variants in the pronunciation of multitask. So, the task, multitask is the British, and the a-pronunciation multitask is American. The U is pronounced as an a-multi-multitask. It improves your ability to multitask. In other words, it makes you better at managing several tasks at the same time. Please write down, it improves your ability to multitask. Once again, it improves your ability to multitask. 24. Для того, чтобы... Это союз. This is a union. For example, to improve something. And the negative form is for not to do something. The synonym is so as to, so as to. And the negative form is so as not to. So as to can be used at the beginning of the sentence, like in order to, but more often than not, it's in the middle. So, for example, in order to improve your English speaking skills, I recommend joining a speaking club. Or, I recommend joining a speaking club so as to improve your speaking skills. Please write down, in order not to. In order not to. Put the not in parenthesis. And write the translation. And also write down the synonym. So as not to. Put the parenthesis around not. In order to, or in order not to. So as to, so as not to. In order to, in order not to. I would advise him or her to visit a speaking club. Literally write down or join. Remember that recommend is followed by that clause which begins with this subject. So she or he. And then use the subjunctive, which is the base form of the verb. So it's join, just join. They join. That is optional. So you can drop that. You can say, I recommend she join or I recommend that she join. I recommend that she join a speaking club. In other words, I recommend that he or she take part in a speaking club. Or simply, I recommend joining a speaking club. Please write down the sentence. I recommend that she or he join a speaking club. Put that in parenthesis. So you can say either way. I recommend that she join or I recommend she join a speaking club.
 26. Я бы посоветовал им посещать дополнительные занятия. I'd recommend that they take extra classes. Listen and repeat. I'd recommend that they take extra classes. So that is optional. You can say I'd recommend they take extra classes or I'd recommend that they take extra classes. Another way of saying this is I'd suggest they sign up for extra classes or I'd recommend enrolling in an additional course or I'd recommend taking some extra classes. Please write down the sentence. I'd recommend that they take extra classes. I'd in the parenthesis write I would, recommend that, place that in parentheses that they take extra classes. I'd recommend that they take extra classes. 27. Я бы предложил скачать хорошее приложение для изучения языков. Just listen. I'd suggest downloading a good language learning app. Focus on the sound on the short O in good, so it's not O. The short O is a sound that's between the Russian O and O, closer to O probably, O, O, O, and the G is softer, G, G, good, good. A good language learning app. I'd suggest downloading a good language learning app. Another way of phrasing this idea is to say that I would recommend finding a special program for learning languages or I'd suggest getting a good app for learning languages. Please write down the sentence. I'd suggest downloading a good language learning app. I'd suggest is spelled as S-U-W-G-E-S-T, downloading D-O-W-N-L-O-A-D-I-N-G, a good language learning app, app with a double P at the end. I'd suggest downloading a good language learning app. The contracted verb in I'd is would, I would suggest. 28. А также это союз. As well as, this is a conjunction, союз. Please make sure that you do not de-voice the S at the end of as, so it's as, as, and make sure you're not substituting the labial W with the labial W. Both lips, use both lips to say W, do not incorporate your teeth. As well as, as well as, a synonym for as well as is and or in addition to, together with, and along with. Here's an example sentence. Learning foreign languages helps us to understand other cultures better, as well as our own culture and way of thinking. Please write down as well as and write down the translation. 29. Однако тем не менее вместе с тем это наречие. However, however is an adverb, наречие. When you pronounce however, split it up into two parts. The first one is how, so the O W is pronounced as a diphthong, ow, and then the ever part. How ever, how ever, however, however. A synonym for however is but, so it's used to show a contrast or difference with what was said before. Here's an example. I'd like to take up Chinese, however, I'm afraid that it might be too difficult. Please write down however and how do you spell that? It's H O W E V E R and write down the translation. 30. Различные это прилагательное, а также однокоренное существительное разнообразие и устойчивое словосочетание большое разнообразие. Listen and repeat. Various. Various is an adjective. The noun is a variety, variety, and the expression is a great variety of activities. Большое разнообразие мероприятий. A great variety of activities. So please use connected speech. Variety of, variety of activities, variety of activities, a great variety of activities. So various means different kinds or types of something and the phrase a great variety of activities means that there is a large number of different activities or things. Here are some examples. Speaking of our English lessons at school, there's a great variety of activities that we engage in, such as reading articles, listening to audio recordings, writing letters and essays, completing various grammar exercises, and practicing our speaking skills and another example. Learning foreign languages allows us to connect with people from various cultural backgrounds. Please write down various. How do you spell various? It's V A R I O U S. Write down the translation. Различные.
 31. Проявлять уважение и интерес к другим культурам. Это устойчивое словосочетание. В английском нет уй, поэтому это апри-щи-а-шн. Апри-щи-а-шн. To show appreciation for other cultures. In other words, to be respectful and to take interest in other cultures, to value other cultures and to respect their differences. Here's an example. Finally, I have a positive attitude towards learning foreign languages. Personally, I believe that by doing so, we show our appreciation for other cultures. Please write down. To show appreciation for other cultures. How do you spell appreciation? It's a-double-p-r-e-c-i-a-t-i-o-n. To show appreciation for other cultures. 32. Из другой культурной среды. Это устойчивое словосочетание. From a different cultural background. This is a collocation. Once again, from a different cultural background. In other words, from another culture, having traditions that are different from the traditions in your own country. Learning foreign languages allows us to better understand the mentality of people from other cultural backgrounds, as well as our own cultural perspective on the world. Please write down the expression from a different cultural background. How do you spell cultural? How do you spell cultural? It's c-u-l-t-u-r-a-l. And how do you spell background? The spelling is b-a-c-k-g-r-o-u-n-d. From a different cultural background. Please write the translation. Из другой культурной среды. 33. Совершенно точно, несомненно. Это наречие. Most, certainly. Listen and repeat. Oh, most. Remember, there's no such word as most in English. There's most. Certainly. Most certainly. This is an adverb. So most certainly means without a doubt, undoubtedly, unquestionably, definitely, positively, and clearly are all synonyms for most certainly. Here's an example. I'd like to begin by noting that learning a foreign language is challenging, but it's most certainly rewarding, enjoyable, and worth the effort. Please write down most certainly. How do you spell certainly? It's c-e-r-t-a-i-n-l-y. And write down a synonymous expression. Without a doubt. How do you spell doubt? It's d-o-u-b-t. Remember the silent b. It's not pronounced. Without a doubt. Write the translation. Несомненно. Once again, it's most certainly, without a doubt, несомненно. Thirty-four. Награда существительная и однокоренные слова награждать глагол и прилагательное, вознаграждающее, приносящее радость от достигнутого успеха или положительного результата. Слышите и повторите. Ре-у-орд. Так что британская пронзация без R. Ре-у-орд. А американцы пронзают R. Ре-у-орд. Но вы должны быть уверены, что вы не замените лабео в, с лабеоденталом в. Ре-у-орд. Make sure that your upper teeth are not touching your bottom lip. Как только верхние зубы касаются нижние губы, даже чуть-чуть, уже получается неправильный звук. Ре-у-орд. And then the verb is to. Ре-у-орд. And the adjective is rewarding. Ре-у-орд. A reward is a prize or an expression of gratitude and honor. To reward means to give someone a prize or to express thanks. And the adjective rewarding means valuable and enjoyable, worthwhile, encouraging, making you feel good about your hard work and achievements. Here's an example. I'd like to begin by noting that learning a foreign language is challenging, but it's most certainly rewarding, enjoyable, and worth the effort. Please write down the adjective rewarding. How do you spell rewarding? It's r-e-w-a-r-d-i-n-g. Write down the synonyms valuable and enjoyable. Ценные, приносящие удовольствия. Valuable is v-a-l-u-a-b-l-e and enjoyable. So rewarding is valuable and enjoyable. 35. Судьба, удача, а также богатство и состояние. Судьба, удача, а также богатство и состояние. Судьба, удача, а также богатство и состояние. Судьба, удача, а также богатство и состояние. Судьба, удача, а также богатство и состояние. Судьба, удача, а также богатство и состояние. Судьба, удача, а также богатство и состояние. Судьба, удача, а также богатство и состояние. Судьба, удача, а также богатство и состояние. Судьба, удача, а также богатство и состояние. Судьба, удача, а также богатство и состояние. Судьба, удача, а также богатство и состояние. К счастью. К сожалению. К счастью. К счастью. К счастью. К счастью. К счастью. К счастью. К счастью. Вы можете сказать, например, К счастью. К счастью. К счастью. К счастью. К счастью. К счастью. К счастью. К счастью. К счастью. К счастью. К счастью. Я читаю мои английские ассоциации и смотрю английские видео в оригинале. Пожалуйста, писите на счастью. Как вы спелите счастье? Это F-O-R-T-U-N-A-T-E-L-Y. Добавьте приставку UN в скобочках. Добавьте приставку U-N. Участно. Пишите перевод. К счастью. К сожалению.
 36. Дополнение к этому. Это фраза связка. In addition to that. What you're into dentals. That. In addition to that. So this is a linking expression to add more information. Some synonyms are moreover, furthermore, to add to that and additionally. All of these words and expressions are used as linkers. Here's an example. And write down the translation. 37. За исключением помимо, кроме. So it's two words. Apart and from. Apart from. Apart from is synonymous to except for or other than. These function as prepositions. So when it comes to using English outside the class, unfortunately, I don't use it much apart from completing my English homework assignments and watching English videos in the original. Please write down apart from. Apart from and write down the synonym. How do you spell except? It's e-x-c-e-p-t. Except for. Write the translation. За исключением помимо, кроме. 38. Лично. Лично я, например. Пersonally. Note the pronunciation of the letter E. It's pronounced as e as in skirt and shirt. Personally. Personally. Some synonyms for personally are as for me or as for myself. Means, you know, connected to you and not anyone else. And another meaning of personally is in my view or in my opinion. So you use it to give an opinion. Personally, I've been learning English since my second year at school. So in this example personally means that you're speaking of yourself. As for me or as for myself, I've been learning English since my second year at school. And here's the second example. Personally, I believe that by learning foreign languages, we show our appreciation for other cultures. So in this case personally means in my view or in my opinion. Please write down personally. How do you spell personally? It's p-e-r-s-o-n-a-double-l-y. And write down some synonyms. As for me and in my view. 39. Я изучаю английский с тех пор как... I've is the short form for I have. I've been learning. Another way of saying this is I've been studying English for a certain period of time. So, for example, I've been studying English for the past six or seven years. Personally, I've been learning English since my second year at school. As for me or as for myself, I've been learning English since year two at school. So... Когда говорим о классе, первый, второй, третий класс, Americans say grade, first grade, second grade. The British use the word year. Class is reserved for your particular class. Класс это уже там класс, например, ninth B or tenth I. And for grade, the British usually use the word year or form. Form is kind of old fashioned and it's a bit more formal. So you'll hear people use the word year a lot. Например, второй класс, они скажут это второй год обучения, second year. И, как правило, добавляется еще притяжательное местоимение мой, мой второй год обучения в школе, my second year at school. Или же год два, year two. Since year two at school. Please write down the whole sentence with its variants. I've been learning English since childhood. С детства. How do you spell childhood? It's c-h-i-l-d-h-double-o-d. My second year at school. Со второго класса. My second year at school. Year two at school. Принято писать второй класс, если он сформулирует как year, сначала, потом two, с большой буквы. Year с большой буквы. Capital Y-e-a-r and capital T in two. So I've been learning English since childhood. I've been learning English since my second year at school. I've been learning English since year two at school. And last but not least, forty. Как долго ты изучаешь английский? Это вопрос? Слушайте и повторите. Как долго ты изучаешь английский? Обратите внимание, н-г в н-л-о-н-г – это звук н, мы не говорим н, ни г. Н-г. Топка твоей токси находится на нижней части, кончик языка внизу у нижних зубов. И спинка твоей токси находится вверху на мягкий палец. Спинка языка касается мягкого неба. Звук как бы в горношке. Inhale and exhale through your nose. Дох и выдох через нос. L-o-ng. How long? How long have you been learning English? Use connected speech. L-o-ng have. How long have? How long have you been learning English? You can also use the past simple to ask this question. When did you start studying foreign languages? But in this case we start with the word when. Когда ты начал обучаться иностранным языкам? When did you start studying foreign languages? Please write down the question. How long have you been learning English? This question uses the present perfect. So to talk about a period of time that started in the past, but is continuing up until now. Once again, how long have you been? b-e-n Learning English. How long have you been learning English?
