 1. Редуцированный гласный. Редукция – это ослабление звучания безударных гласных, когда они произносятся короче, менее четко и могут менять свое качество. Listen and repeat. A reduced vowel. Note the pronunciation of the first E in reduced is pronounced as a short E sound. The second E is not pronounced. It's a silent E. Reduced. Also note the variations in pronunciation in British English. The letter U is pronounced as a U reduced, whereas in American English it's pronounced as a long U sound. Reduced. Listen and repeat. Reduced. The combination of letters O and W in the word vowel are pronounced as an O sound. Vowel. A reduced vowel is a vowel sound that is weak and not clear, often used in unstressed syllables. The most typical reduced vowel in English is the schwa sound. It's denoted by an upside-down E symbol in the International Phonetic Alphabet. It's a weak vowel. For example, in the word banana, the first A and the last A are reduced vowels. They are in a weak position, which means they are not stressed, so they lose their full quality. Whereas the second A is in a strong position. It's in the stressed syllable, so it's pronounced longer and clearer. As the A sound in American English, banana, banana. And as the long A in British English, banana, banana. Let's take a look at the word common from our previous vocabulary set, which translates into Russian as распространенный. Remember a common technique. In the word common, the first O is stressed. It's a strong vowel. It's pronounced either as a long O in American English, common, or as a short O sound in British English, common. Whereas the second O is reduced. It's in the syllable, which is not stressed, so it's a weak vowel, which means it's shorter and its quality is less clear. Listen to the O in the second syllable. Common, or common, men. So it's kind of an uh sound, something in between uh, eh, or eh, uh, uh, common. It's the schwa sound. Please write down the expression, a reduced vowel. The spelling is R-E-D-U-C-E-D for reduced, and vowel is spelled as V-O-W-E-L. Write the translation, редуцированный гласный. Also write two examples, the word banana and the word common, which is spelled as C-O-M-M-O-N. Circle the reduced vowels in these words. Circle the first and the last A in banana and circle the second O in the word common. These vowels are reduced. R- окрашенные гласные. Это гласные, после которых сразу произносится звук R, который влияет на звучание гласного звука. В транскрипции в кембриджском словаре добавляется специальный такой значок, это крючок справа от гласного звука вместо символа, обозначающий звук R. Как правило, этот крючок встречается в словах с гласными uh, как в слове bird, и с безударным гласным schwa, как во втором слоге, в слове better и во втором слоге, в слове color. Слышите и повторяйте. R-колорные гласные. Обратите внимание на два варианта в исполнении. Это исполняется с U в британском английском и без U в американском английском. R-колорные гласные – гласные звуки, которые меняются, когда letter R подходит прямо после них в тот же слог. Так что гласный и R пронося вместе как один специальный звук. Например, в словах как bird, purple, color, и better. В транскрипциях, которые используют интернациональный фонетический алфабет, R-колорные гласные являются марктом с специальным символом, называемым диакритикой HOOK, поставленным на правое от регулярного звука. Например, гласный schwa с маленьким HOOK на правом, или гласный U с маленьким HOOK на правом. Не все типы английских гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных гласных глас However, as Russian speakers, we tend to pronounce the R sound because it's written in the word, so whether or not you're striving for a British accent, many Russian speakers still pronounce the R sound. So it's important to remember to keep your tongue to the front and not roll the tongue too far back. Важно помнить о том, что необходимо удерживать кончик языка у передних зубов, не отодвигать слишком далеко назад, чтобы не получалось неестественное произношение в этих словах, such as color or bird or better. Keep the tip of the tongue to the front. My recommendation is not to pronounce the letter R in these words with R-colored vowels. Лучше не произносить букву R вовсе, придерживаясь, условно говоря, британского варианта, хотя инстинктивно многие продолжают произносить звук R в некоторой степени и как раз таки получают искомый R-colored vowel, столь характерный для американского английского. Alright, so to sum up, keep the tip of your tongue to the front. Some other words from this set and the previous vocabulary set with R-colored vowels include flavor, matter, observe, surface, measure and nuclear. Please write down the following words. Write down R-colored vowels. Remember the British spelling is with a U, American spelling is without the U, and the word vowels. The spelling is V-O-W-E-L-S. R-colored vowels use an M- and write down the following words with R-colored vowels. Flavor, it's spelled as F-L-A-V-O. U in parenthesis, U в скобочках R. Note the British spelling with a U and the American spelling without the U. The next word is observe, it's spelled as O-B-S-E-R-V-E. And the last word is measure, which translates into Russian as Izmiryat. The spelling is M-E-A-S-U-R-E. So the three words with R-colored vowels are flavor, observe and measure. Circle the R-colored vowels in these words, so it's the O-U in flavor, the E in observe and the U in measure. And when you read these out on your audio recording, please make sure that you keep the tip of your tongue to the front or avoid pronouncing the R sound altogether. Flavor, observe and measure.
 3. Словосочетание «проводить эксперименты» и еще два словосочетания с тем же глаголом «проводить исследования», то есть отдельные работы, отдельные исследования. И третье словосочетание «проводить исследования, используя систематический комплексный подход». «To conduct studies». That's the plural form «проводить исследования», and the singular would be «to conduct a study». And finally, «to conduct research». Note the two variants in pronunciation and stress, so this word can be pronounced with the stress on the first or on the second syllable. So, it's either research or research. In the British variant, the second R is not pronounced. Research, research. Whereas in the American variant, the second R gives the preceding vowel R coloration. So, it's research or research. «To conduct experiments» means to do tests. «To conduct studies» means to perform individual investigations on a subject. And finally, «to conduct research» means to investigate using a systematic approach. Here's an example sentence. «Some other important studies on neutrinos are being conducted by the IceCube Neutrino Observatory in Antarctica. Please write down the following expression. «To conduct» How do you spell «conduct»? The spelling is C-O-N-D-U-C-T. And write down the word «studies», which is spelled as S-T-U-D-I-E-S. «Studies» slash «research». How do you spell «research»? It's R-E-S-E-A-R-C-H. «To conduct studies» and «to conduct research». So, these two expressions are synonymous. There is a slight difference in that a study is a separate work, это отдельная работа, whereas research is more systematic. So, please write the translation. «Проводить исследования» или «исследование». 4. «Вещество» Это существительное и глагол «иметь значение». Listen and repeat. «Matter» Note the variations in the pronunciation. In British English, the R is not pronounced, so it's «matter». And in the American English, there is an R-colored vowel at the end, and the double T is often pronounced as a «r» sound. «Matter» The verb is «to matter», which translates into Russian as «иметь значение», «быть важным». «Matter» as a noun is physical substance, material, in other words, stuff, whereas the verb «to matter» means «to be important». Here are some example sentences. «Your thoughts and ideas matter» «Ваши мысли и идеи имеют значение». In this case, «matter» is a verb. And here are some sentences with «matter» as a noun. «Everything around us is made of matter». «Нутринос» also provide a tool to study the structure of nucleons, protons and neutrons, to learn how matter evolved from simple particles into more complex groups of particles, creating literally everything around us. Please write down the noun «matter». It's spelled as M-A-T-T-E-R. And it translates into Russian as «вещество». 5. Существительный след и однокоренной глагол в двух разных значениях. Первое значение «отслеживать», второе значение «обводить, калькировать, очерчивать». Listen and repeat. Trace. Trace. Remember to keep the jaw loose. Do not tighten the jaw. Не зажимайте челюсть when you're pronouncing the «с» sound at the end. Trace. The verb is «т-trace», which translates into Russian as «отслеживать». And the second meaning of the verb «to trace», for example, «to trace a drawing», translates into Russian as «обводить, калькировать, очерчивать». The noun «trace» is a mark or sign left by something. The verb «to trace» means to find or follow the path, in other words, to track. And the second meaning is to draw or copy a shape by showing the main or outer lines. Here are some examples. We traced the route on the map. It means we followed the route on the map or we tracked it. Another sentence. She carefully traces the drawing to color it later. And here's an example of trace as a noun. Neutrinos may be detected by an observable trace. They leave as they interact with other particles in the atomic nuclei. Please write down the noun «trace», which is spelt as «trace», and write the translation «след». Listen and repeat. Interact Note the American variation in the pronunciation. The T is often pronounced as a R sound. Interact And sometimes when we speak fast, it's not pronounced at all. Interact To interact translates into Russian as «взаимодействовать», and the noun is «interaction». Interaction translates as «взаимодействие», and the adjective is «interactive». Interactive To interact means to do something together with someone or something else, or to communicate. The adjective «interactive» means involving active participation. Before physicists can understand the role neutrinos play in the evolution of our universe, they need to better understand how neutrinos interact with other particles. Please write down the noun «interaction», which is spelt as «интеракция». Interaction It translates into Russian as «заимодействие».
 7. Долгое время считалось, что listen and repeat, was long thought to be. Let's focus on the pronunciation. So the first word is was. Make sure you're not de-voicing the Z at the end of was. Keep your jaws loose. Do not tighten the jaws. And make sure you're pronouncing the W sound with your lips rounded. Your upper teeth should not be touching the bottom lip. Was. The next word is long. Note the pronunciation of NG. It's the N sound we discussed last time. Long. Keep the tip of your tongue at the bottom. And the back of the tongue is up against the soft palate. Breathe in and breathe out through your nose. Long. Thought. The next word is thought. Focus on the intradental TH. Thought. So it's a long O sound. Thought. And then finally T to be. The particle to here is pronounced with a reduced vowel. So it's not to but a to. To be. Listen and repeat. To be. Focus on the intradental thought. Thought to be. Focus on the NG sound. Breathe in and out through your nose. Long. The tip of your tongue is at the bottom where the bottom teeth are. Long. Long. Take a pause. Focus on the intradental thought to be. Thought to be. Once again. Long pause. Thought to be. Long thought to be. And now let's say the whole expression. What was long thought to be. Once again. What was long thought to be. Was long thought to be. Was long thought to be means that people believed it for a long time. It was long thought to be impossible to fly. And here's another example from our text. The neutrino is so named because it is electrically neutral and because its rest mass is so small that it was long thought to be zero. Please write down this expression. Was W-A-S long L-O-N-G thought the spelling is T-H-O-U-G-H-T O-B-E. Now please circle or highlight the following sounds that I'd like you to focus on as you read this expression. So the first sound is the W denoted by the letter W. The next sound is the voiced Z sound denoted by the letter S in was. The next sound is the N sound denoted by letters N and G in long. The next sound is the intradental F denoted by the T-H combination in thought. And finally the reduced uh sound in the word two. So highlight letter O. Above these highlighted letters please write their transcription symbols. So above the W write the transcription for the W sound. You can use square brackets or slashes or slashes. The next sound is Z. It's the same as the letter Z. The next is the N symbol. Remember it looks like an N with a long hook. Above the N-G combination put the NG symbol. Then the symbol for the unvoiced intradental F above the T-H combination which looks like a zero with a little line in the middle. And finally the reduced uh in two. The W is denoted by a symbol that looks like an upside down E. Once again when you read out this expression on your audio recording focus on the correct pronunciation of these sounds. So was long thought to be. Eight. Listen and repeat. The rest mass. The first E in rest sounds very much like the Russian whereas the second in mass is a sound between the sounds and so your mouth is more open. And it's a little bit longer. Mass. Rest mass. Make sure that you keep the tip of the tongue to the front when pronouncing the sound and keep the jaws loose. Do not tighten them. The rest mass. The rest mass is the mass of something not moving. The rest mass of an electron is very small. The rest mass of the neutrino is much smaller than that of the other known elementary particles including massless particles. Please write down the expression the rest mass. How do you spell that? It's R-E-S-T and the second word is M-A-S-S. Nine. Listen and repeat. Gravity. Gravity. Note the variation in American pronunciation so the T is pronounced as a R sound oftentimes. Gravity. Gravity. This is a noun and the adjective is gravitational. Gravitational. Gravitational translates into Russian as gravitational. Gravity is the force that pulls objects towards each other. A synonym for gravity is attraction. Gravity keeps us on earth. A neutrino is an elementary particle that interacts only via the weak interaction and gravity. Please write down the word gravity. The spelling is G-R-A-V-I-T-Y and it translates into Russian as gravitation.
 10. Обильные в изобилии. Это прилагательное и однокоренное существительное изобилие. Listen and repeat. Abundant. One more time. Abundant. Note that the letter U is pronounced as an O sound, whereas the A at the beginning and at the end, these vowels are reduced. They're pronounced as a schwa. Abundant. Abundant is an adjective which translates into Russian as обильный или в изобилие. And here's the noun. Abundance. Abundance, which translates into Russian as изобилие. Abundant means more than enough, present in large quantities. A good synonym for abundant is plentiful. Abundance is a large amount, a large amount which is more than enough. Here are some examples. Neutrinos are thought to be by far the most abundant particles in the entire universe. There's an abundance of information online. Please write down the expression. There's an abundance of theirs. So T-H-E-R-E apostrophe S. The article N-A-N. And the word abundance, which is spelt as A-B-U-N-D-A-N-C-E. Abundance. And finally the preposition of O-F. There's an abundance of, which translates into Russian as существует обилие или великое множество чего-либо. Please finish writing this sentence with your idea. There's an abundance of. Please use positive examples, so good things in abundance. 11. Проходить через или сквозь. Listen and repeat. To pass through. Note the variations in the pronunciation of the word pass. The British pronounce it as P-A-S with an O sound, whereas the American pronunciation is A-P-A-S. Now please focus on the intradental in the next word. Th-R-U. The G-H at the end are silent, O-U are pronounced as an O sound. To pass through. To pass through means to go from one side to the other. Light can pass through glass. About 100 trillion neutrinos pass through your body every second, even if you don't seem to be aware of that. Please write down the word through. How do you spell that? It's spelled as T-H-R-O-U-G-H, which translates into Russian as через. Please write the transcription for this word. So use square brackets or slashes. Write the symbol for the unvoiced intradental, which looks like a zero with a little line in the middle. Then the sound R is the same as the letter R. The long O sound is denoted by the same symbol as for letter U and then a colon at the end, to show that it's long. So it's three sounds. Be sure to keep the tip of your tongue to the front and not roll it too far back. Focus on the intradental. Twelve. Listen and repeat. Moderate. Note the variations in the pronunciation. The British pronounce it more with an O sound, moderate, whereas the American pronunciation is with a long O sound, moderate. Note the pronunciation of the letter A at the end. It's a reduced vowel and it's pronounced as an O sound. Moderate. Moderate is an adjective, which translates into Russian as умеренный, средний. The verb to moderate has the same spelling, but a different pronunciation. Just listen first. Moderate. To moderate. The verb is pronounced with the A as a strong vowel. A. Moderate. The stress is still on the first syllable, and again the variation with British being more of an O sound, moderate, and American more of an A sound, moderate. To moderate. To moderate is a verb, which translates into Russian as модерировать, руководить формом. Finally, the noun, существительное, moderation, translates into Russian as умеренность, сдерживанность. Listen and repeat. Moderation. Most things are good in moderation. So the noun moderation means balance. It's when you avoid the extremes. The adjective moderate means not too much, average. Another synonym for moderate is mild, especially when you're talking about something, a taste that's not too spicy or not too bland. It's moderate. And the verb to moderate means to make sure that the rules of an internet discussion are not broken. Here are some example sentences. The weather is moderate in spring. Here moderate is an adjective, which means it's not too cold and not too hot. The weather is moderate. Here's another example with the verb moderate. Language students were invited to moderate our school telegram groups to make sure that all discussions stayed respectful and on topic. Here's an example with moderation, the noun. Moderation and balance are important in almost all areas of life. And finally, here's an example from our text. In fact, sometimes neutrinos enter the nucleus of an atom, pass into one of the protons and neutrons and come very close to a quark in the proton or neutron. There's a moderate chance that the neutrino and quark will strike each other. Please write down the adjective moderate. It's spelled as M-O-D-E-R-A-T-E. Note in the parentheses that it's an adjective. You can write the abbreviation for adjective, which is A-D-J, period, and write the translation.
 Целый – это прилагательные и однокоренные слова, наречие полностью, существительная совокупность, целостность и фраза «даже целая планета». И повторяем. «Ин-та-я» «Ин-та-я» Обратите внимание на пронзацию первого «и», которое произносится как короткий «е». «Р» в конце не произносится в британском варианте. «Ин-та-я» И вот американская пронзация. «Ин-та-я» «Ин-та-я» – это аджектеф, который переводится в русский «цели». Адверб «ин-та-я-ли» «Р» не произносится в британском варианте. «Ин-та-я-ли» «Ин-та-я-ли» переводится в русский «полностью». Существительное слово – «ин-та-я-ре-ти». В американской версии финальное «т» часто произносится как «р». «Ин-та-я-ре-ти» «Ин-та-я-ре-ти» переводится в русский «совокупность, целостность». И наконец, экспрессия «even an entire planet» переводится в русский «даже целая планета». Слушайте и повторите. «Ин-та-я-ре-ти» «Ин-та-я-ре» переводится в русский «полностью». Адверб «ин-та-я-ли» переводится в русский «полностью». Существительное слово «ин-та-я-ре-ти» переводится в русский «полностью». И наконец, экспрессия «even an entire planet» переводится в русский «даже целую планету». «Ин-та-я-ре-ти» «Ин-та-я-ре-ти» переводится в русский «даже целую планету». Вот какие примерные слова. Нейтриноза считаются, по крайней мере, самых обунденных партий в целом мире. The Milky Way galaxy is so vast that it cannot be observed in its entirety with a single telescope. Please write down the adverb entirely. The spelling is «и-эн-ти-а-й-р-и-эл-й». In the parentheses note that it's an adverb. В скобочках пометьте, что это наречие. It's a synonym for entirely. Колебаться имеется в виду биологический, механический или электромагнитный процесс. Это специальное слово, специальный термин. И одно коренное существительное «колебание» или «асцеляция». А также запишем словосочетание «нейтринные асцеляции». Нейтринные асцеляции – это превращение электронного, мионного или тау-нейтрина в нейтрино другого вида. Слышите и повторите. Обратите внимание на разнообразия в пронзансировании. Это больше «о» в британском английском. И больше «а» в американском английском. «To oscillate» is a verb, which translates into Russian as «колебаться». The noun is oscillation. Oscillation translates into Russian as «колебание-асцеляция». And finally the expression neutrino-oscillation translates into Russian as «нейтринные асцеляции». To oscillate means to move repeatedly from one position to another. Oscillation is the movement back and forth. Neutrino-oscillation is the change of a neutrino from one flavor or one type to another. There are three flavors or three types of neutrino – electron neutrinos, muon neutrinos and tau neutrinos. Here are some example sentences. Neutrinos oscillate or change direction or flavor as they travel. The oscillation was measured in seconds. These experiments can measure the details of neutrino oscillations with high precision. Please write down the expression neutrino-oscillation. How do you spell that? It's N-E-U-T-R-I-N-O for neutrino. And the spelling of oscillation is O-S-C-I-L-L-A-T-I-O-N. Please write down the definition for this expression. The change of a neutrino from one flavor to another. Once again, neutrino oscillation is the change of a neutrino from one flavor to another. You can also say that it's the change of a neutrino from one type to another. Фатон – частица света, одна из нейтральных элементарных частиц с нулевой массой. Listen and repeat. Note that the first O is pronounced as a diphthong, foe, whereas the second O is just a single vowel, an O sound. Фо-тон – фо-тон. A photon is a tiny particle of light. A photon travels at the speed of light. Neutrinos are the second most abundant particle in the universe after particles of light called photons. Please write down the word photon. It's spelled as P-H-O-T-O-N. Please write down the definition for the word photon. It's a tiny particle of light. How do you spell tiny? It's T-I-N-Y, which means very small. A tiny particle of light.
 16. Кварк – элементарная частица, которая входит в состав протонов и нейтронов внутри атомного ядра. Listen and repeat. A quark. Make sure that your top teeth are not touching the bottom lip. Убедитесь, что верхние зубы не касаются нижней губы. Round the lips. A quark. A quark is a small particle that makes up protons and neutrons. Quarks are found inside atoms. In fact, sometimes neutrinos enter the nucleus of an atom, pass into one of the protons and neutrons and come very close to a quark in the proton or neutron. There's a moderate chance that the neutrino and quark will strike each other. Please write down the word quark. The spelling is Q-U-A-R-K. A quark. And write down the definition. It's a small particle that makes up protons and neutrons. Once again, a quark is a small particle. Remember the spelling of the word particle. P-A-R-T-I-C-L-E, which translates into Russian as частица. A small particle that makes up protons and neutrons. The spelling of neutrons is N-E-U-T-R-O-N-S. Once again, a quark is a small particle that makes up protons and neutrons. Seventeen. Эволюционировать, развиваться – это глагол, и однокоренные слова – существительная эволюция и прилагательная эволюционный. Listen and repeat. Evolve. T-Evolve. Note the variations in the pronunciation, so the British pronounce it more with an O sound, Evolve, whereas the American pronunciation has a longer vowel sound, more of an O sound, Evolve. The first vowel denoted by the letter E is pronounced as a short I sound, Evolve. Evolve is a verb, глагол, which translates into Russian as эволюционировать, развиваться. The noun, существительное, is evolution. Note the two variants in the pronunciation, it can be pronounced either as e-volution or as evolution, both variants are acceptable. Evolution translates into Russian as эволюция, and finally the adjective, прилагательное, is evolutionary. This word also can be pronounced either as evolutionary or evolutionary. Evolutionary translates into Russian as эволюционный. Here are the definitions. To evolve means to develop or change slowly. Evolution is the process of development, and evolutionary is related to the process of evolution. Evolutionary biology is the scientific study of the way in which populations of living things change and develop over time. Species evolve over time. And here's an example sentence from our text. Before physicists can understand the role neutrinos play in the evolution of our universe, they need to better understand how neutrinos interact with other particles. Please write down the verb to evolve. It's spelled as e-v-o-l-v-e, to evolve. It translates into Russian as эволюционировать, развиваться. Also please write down the definition to develop or change slowly. Once again, to evolve means to develop or change slowly. 18. Прилагательное, среднее, среднестатистическое, и однокоренные слова, существительное, среднее значение, средний показатель, средний уровень, глагол в среднем составляет, и словосочетание, которое функционирует как наречие в среднем. 19. Авераж Note the pronunciation of the final a. It's pronounced as a short e-sound, ridge. The j is soft, average. Also note the slight difference in the pronunciation between the American and the British versions. The British tend to drop the e in the middle and say average, whereas in the American version it has this r-colored vowel, average. The adjective average translates into Russian as средний, среднестатистический. The noun, существительное, the average, translates into Russian as среднее значение, средний показатель, средний уровень. Note the pronunciation of the article the before a vowel it's pronounced as the, the average. The verb, глагол, to average translates into Russian as средним составляет в третьем лице единственного числа. In the third person singular it has an s at the end, averages. Something averages to a certain amount. Last but not least, on average is an expression which functions as an adverb, it translates into Russian as средним. The adjective average means normal, typical, usual. The noun, the average, means the usual amount. The verb to average means to reach a particular amount as an average. So when something averages to a certain number it means that it reaches a particular amount as an average. Finally the expression on average, some good synonyms for this expression are usually or typically. Here are some examples. A typical college student averages two to three hours of independent studying per night during the academic semester. In this case averages is a verb, it means that usually a college student studies for about two or three hours each day or each night. Night in this case means evening, not night time. Night может иметь значение вечер, а не ночь. Do all of your studies during the daytime. Here's another example. On average it takes an hour to finish the test. В среднем тест занимает около часа. And here's an example sentence from our text. About 15 billion neutrinos from the Big Bang are in the average room. Please write down the adjective average, it's spelled as A-V-E-R-A-G-E. Average and it translates into Russian as средний, среднестатистический. Write down the synonyms for average, normal, typical, usual. Once again there are three synonyms, normal, typical. The second letter is Y-T-Y-P-I-C-A-L, typical, and usual, spelled as U-S-U-A-L. 19. Слабое взаимодействие. Listen and repeat. The weak force. The weak force is a reaction between particles that causes some radioactive substances to break down. It's one of the four fundamental forces. It is also called the weak interaction. Here's an example sentence. Neutrino is an elementary particle that interacts only via the weak force and gravity. So weak force is a special term that comes from physics. You do not need to write it down. Last but not least, number 20. Sometimes they are also called neutral flavors. Listen and repeat. Flavor. Note the variation in spelling between the British and the American versions. The British spelling has a letter U in it, so it's F-L-A-V-O-U-R, whereas the American is spelled without the U. Flavor. The British do not pronounce the R at the end. Make sure to keep the tip of the tongue to the front. Flavor is a noun, which translates into Russian as аромат, вкус, оттенок. And here is the expression, neutrino flavors, which translates into Russian as нитринные ароматы или флаворы. A flavor is how food or drink tastes. It's a particular taste or a particular quality or character. In physics, a flavor is a type or property of subatomic particles. For example, the different types of neutrinos. There are three types of neutrinos or three flavors of neutrinos. The electron neutrino, the muon neutrino, and the tau neutrino. Neutrinos do not stay the same. They change types all the time. In other words, they oscillate from one type to another. An electron neutrino can become a muon neutrino or a tau neutrino. Once again, there are three types of neutrino particles. These types are called flavors. They are the electron neutrino, the muon neutrino, and the tau neutrino. Please write down the expression neutrino flavors. How do you spell that? How to spell that? It's spelled as n-e-u-t-r-i-n-o neutrino. Write down the word flavors. The spelling is f-l-a-v-o. U in parentheses, u в скобочках, r-s. Put an m dash, поставьте длинные тире. Write down the three neutrino flavors. The electron neutrino, the muon neutrino, and the tau neutrino. The first is electron. The spelling is e-l-e-c-t-r-o-n, muon, m-u-o-n, and tau. The spelling is t-a-u. So there are three neutrino flavors, electron, muon, and tau.
