 Слог, существительное и однокоренные слова, предлагательное слоговой, существительное слоговая азбука, глагол «делить на слоги» и существительное деление на слоге. Listen and repeat. Syllable. Syllable is a noun, это слог. The adjective is syllabic, слоговой, syllabic. And the noun, which translates into Russian as слоговая азбука, is syllabary. Let's continue with the verb, глагол, to syllabify. To syllabify translates into Russian as делить на слоге. And the noun, деление на слоге, translates into English as syllabification. Once again, let's repeat. A syllable. A syllable. Syllabic. Syllabic. A syllabary. A syllabary. To syllabify. To syllabify. Syllabification. Syllabification. A syllable is a part of a word that usually has one vowel sound. For example, the word innovative has four syllables. A syllabary is a set of written symbols for syllables in a language. Today there are very few languages which have syllabic writing and a syllabary. One of them is Japanese. So the Japanese language has a syllabary and they use syllabic writing for some of the words. In combination with logographs, which represent whole concepts or whole words, as do the logograms in Chinese. Ancient scripts and languages such as that of the ancient Maya used a syllabary. To syllabify means to divide a word into syllables. So let's syllabify the word innovative. And you get four syllables. In, na, va, tev. With the stress falling on the first syllable. Innovative. Let's syllabify the word renowned. Признанный знаменитый. The syllabification for the word renowned is renowned. So it's just two syllables. In phonetic transcription, syllable boundaries within words are marked by a period or a dot symbol. Точкой разграничаются слоги в транскрипции. The rules for syllabification in English are quite tricky. But you need to know these rules if you want to hyphenate words in order to split them across two lines. To hyphenate words means to use a diffuse. When you break words between two lines, если вы планируете делать перенос, you need to know the rules of syllabification. We don't usually teach these rules because they're so tricky. And I ask that students do not break words across lines. But if you have little space at the end of a line, just start on a new line and write the whole word. Do not break it. Do not split the word across lines. However, for those who are very, very curious and want to know why the syllabification for scholarly is actually scholarly, there's a great resource that you can use. It's a website called howmanysyllables.com. On this website, you can check the syllabification for any word in English. And you can also read about the rules for syllabifying any word in English. Alright, so for the first vocabulary item, please write down the URL for this website. It's www.howmanysyllables.com. Once again, it's www.howmanysyllables.com. Written as one word, so the spelling is h-o-w-m-a-n-y-s-y-double-l-a-b-l-e-s dot dot com c-o-m. howmanysyllables.com Two. De-fiss. Иоднокоренные слова, глагол «ставить» — «де-fiss», и существительное «де-fiss»-ное написание, а также расстановка переносов или же использование «де-fiss»-ов. Listen and repeat. Hyphen. Hyphen translates as «de-fiss». The verb «to hyphenate» translates into Russian as «ставить» «де-fiss». Listen and repeat. Hyphenate. And the noun is hyphenation. A hyphen is a small punctuation mark, a small line used to join words or parts of words together. To hyphenate means to use a hyphen to join words in order to create compound words, compound nouns or compound adjectives, for example, high school, составное существительное или прилагательное. But you can also use a hyphen to break a word at the end of a line. Hyphenation is also used to split words across lines. Hyphenated words from the present list include well-known, well-known, co-author, co-author, and non-euclidean, non-euclidean, as in non-euclidean geometry. Most compound adjectives are usually hyphenated, well-known, part-time, kind-hearted, long-lasting. But in some words hyphenation is optional. So the following compound nouns may be written with or without a hyphen. High school may be written as two separate words or as a hyphenated word. And email, email may be written as one word or as e-mails. Compound colors are often hyphenated, for example, bluish-green, so it's bluish-green, or simply blue-green. You can also write it as blue-and-green. Please write down the word hyphen. How do you spell hyphen? The spelling is h-y-p-h-e-n hyphen. And write the translation. It translates into Russian as diffuse. Please write down the color, синий зеленый, as bluish-green. The spelling is b-l-u-i-s-h hyphen, g-r-double-e-n, bluish-green, синий зеленый. So there are whole expressions which can be used as adjectives. So we hyphenate these. For example, the expression easy to understand. Легкие для понимания, простое и понятный. So an idea or a concept that is easy to understand, you can use easy to understand as an adjective, and then you hyphenate it. An easy to understand concept. Простая понятная идея. Easy hyphen to hyphen understand. An easy to understand concept. Тире, длинное тире, среднее тире, а также глагол, который означает мчаться. Listen and repeat. And the short dash is called an en dash. An en dash. And there's a verb to dash, which means to move very quickly, to run. A dash is a punctuation mark used to separate parts of a sentence or to show a range of objects or numbers. Unlike the hyphen, it is not used to create compound words, like when we add two words together to create a compound noun or adjective such as bluish green, nor is it used to split or break words across lines. We use a hyphen for that. But a dash is used between parts of a sentence. So a long dash, which is as wide as the letter M in a given typeface. So it's the width of letter M, and that's twice as long as the en dash. The long dash, the en dash, is used to indicate breaks between two parts of a sentence or to introduce additional information in a sentence. It can function like a colon or like parentheses. Вместо скобочек можно использовать длинное тире. The short dash, the en dash, is as wide as the letter N in a particular typeface, so it's slightly longer than a hyphen, and it is used to show ranges of numbers or connections between words. For example, a flight from Moscow to St. Petersburg, you can write it as Moscow N dash St. Petersburg flight. So Moscow and St. Petersburg are not a compound word, but it shows the connection between two words, so it's a flight from Moscow to St. Petersburg. More often than not, the en dash is used to show ranges of numbers. For example, five to ten minutes use the en dash between five and ten. And very often it's used to show ranges of dates. For example, the creation of the first version of the Baikal neutrino telescope took place from 1990 to 1998. So let's recap. Use an en dash to show ranges of numbers or connection between words. The en dash, the long en dash, is used to add extra information to sentences, or it can replace parentheses for emphasis. And finally, the verb to dash means to move very quickly. So he dashed out of the room means that this person left the room very quickly, or in other words, he ran out of the room. Please write down an en dash. So it's three separate words, the article en, en is spelled as em, and the word dash, which is spelled as dash. Write the translation длинное тире. Also note that the em dash is used between parts of a sentence. Used between parts of a sentence. Now please write down an en dash. It's three separate words, the article en, an, then en as an en. And the last word dash, d-a-s-h, an en dash translates into Russian as среднее тире. Note that the en dash is used for ranges of numbers or intervals. And to show connection between words. Once again, used for ranges r-a-n-g-e-s of numbers, for intervals, and to show connection between two different words.
 4. Инновация, существительная, однокоренные, прилагательные, инновационные, инноваторские. Две разные формы прилагательного, которые по сути являются синонимичными. Listen and repeat. Innovation and innovation. This is a noun. And the adjective is innovative. Listen and repeat. Innovative. Note the stress is on the first syllable. Innovative. Americans pronounce innovative as innovative, but the stress is still on the first syllable. Innovative. Innovative. And the second form of the same adjective is innovatory. Innovatory or you may also hear people say innovatory. Innovatory is a synonym for innovative. An innovation is a new idea, method or invention that improves something. And the adjective innovative means using new and creative ideas, original and modern. Андрей Андреевич Марков, который был знаменитым русским математиком, пришел к нам с инновативным способом изучать вероятность и рандомные процессы. Знанными марковыми чинами или марковыми процессами, эти модели помогают предсказать паттерны в многих областях, как веер, язык и результаты веб-сердца. Пожалуйста, написайте аджект «инноватив». Это звено I-N-N-O-V-A-T-I-V-E. Инноватив. И поставьте стресс-марковую на первую syllable. 5. Глагол «изобретать» – еднокоренные слова, прилагательное «изобретательный», наречие «изобретательно», существительное «изобретательность», а также существительные «изобретение» и «изобретатель». Listen and repeat. To invent. To invent is a verb. Inventive. Inventive is an adjective. Inventively. Inventively is an adverb. Inventiveness – that's a noun and it translates into Russian as «изобретательность». An invention is a noun, it translates as «изобретение», and an inventor with an O-R at the end is a noun which translates as «изобретатель». So an inventor is a person who creates something new, makes a new invention, whereas an innovator is a person who introduces changes or new ideas. To invent means to create or design something new that did not exist before. An inventive person is someone who is good at thinking of new and clever ideas. You can also have inventive ideas. Inventive is a synonym for imaginative. Aleksandr Ivanovich Popov was a physicist and teacher at a naval school in St. Petersburg. He is often credited with the invention of the first device to send and receive wireless signals. This invention made it possible to communicate over long distances without wires. On the 7th of May, in 1895, the inventor officially demonstrated his invention – a radio-based lightning detector. The 7th of May is now officially celebrated as Radio Day in Russia. And here's another example – the underwater neutrino telescope is an important 20th century invention. Please write down the adjective «inventive». The spelling is I-N-V-E-N-T-I-V-E. And write down its synonym, which is imaginative. The spelling is I-M-A-G-I-N-A-T-I-V-E. Inventive and imaginative. They are both good synonyms for creative and original. 6. Открывать, обнаруживать глагол и однокоренные слова, существительное открытие, находка, прилагательное, доступное для обнаружения, и прилагательное, не открытый, неизвестный. 7. Discover. Discover is a verb which translates as «открывать, обнаруживать». To discover. The noun is a discovery. 8. Открытие. Discovery. The adjective, which means доступное для обнаружения, is discoverable. So it's able to be discovered. Discoverable. And something that has not been discovered yet is undiscovered. Undiscovered is an adjective. To discover means to find or learn about something for the first time. Some good synonyms for to discover are to find, to locate, to uncover or to reveal. Some good synonyms for discovery include a finding and a revelation. Discoverable means that it's able to be found or noticed, it's detectable or visible. Some good synonyms for undiscovered are not yet found or known, hidden and unknown. In 1930 Wolfgang Pauli, an Austrian-Swiss theoretical physicist, theorized that the neutrino particle should exist. He predicted the undiscovered particle. But he didn't think it would be discoverable. In other words, he thought that the neutrino particle was impossible to detect. Pauli called it the neutron at first, but after the discovery of the neutron by James Chadwick in 1932, it was renamed as the neutrino by a physicist of Italian origin. So neutrino meaning a little neutron in Italian. Seven. Listen first. A breakthrough is a compound noun. It consists of two parts break and through. When you pronounce this word, please pause in the middle, say break, pause, focus on the intrudental, and then pronounce through. A breakthrough. And the phrasal verb is two separate words, to break and through. To break through to something new, to a new understanding, for example. A breakthrough is an important new discovery or development that solves a problem or changes the way we think and advance an achievement, some progress. The phrasal verb to break through means to achieve success, especially after difficulty, to succeed, to overcome, to go higher than a particular level. Lobachevsky's development of non-Euclidean geometry was a major theoretical breakthrough. Please write down the expression a theoretical breakthrough. How do you spell theoretical? The spelling is t-h-e-o-r-e-t-i-c-a-l. And how do you spell breakthrough? It's spelled as b-r-e-a-k-t-h-r-o-u-g-h. A theoretical breakthrough. Write the translation. Listen and repeat. Another noun with the same root is conception. Conception translates as представление чьё-либо представление. The difference between a concept and conception is that a concept is an idea or principle about something. It's a general or widely accepted notion, so it's objective, whereas a conception is the way someone understands or thinks about something. It's one's personal understanding or belief about something. It's more individual and specific. For example, the concept of freedom or the idea of freedom is something universal. And the concept of freedom is important in many countries, whereas a conception, for example, a conception of art may be personal. Her conception of art changed after visiting the museum. The adjective conceptual translates as концептуальный. So the adjective is conceptual and the adverb is концептуально. Some good synonyms for conceptual are theoretical and abstract, so it means relating to ideas or principles, and conceptually means theoretically, in a way that relates to ideas or principles. The expression an innovative concept is synonymous with the expression a theoretical breakthrough. Logographs are special symbols which represent whole words or concepts. In ancient writing systems, these logographs are usually called hieroglyphs.
 9. Наука как общее понятие, система знаний о закономерностях развития природы и общества. Словосочетание «естественные науки», существительное учёный, изучающее естественные науки и прилагательное научный. 10. Естественные науки. 10. The natural sciences. 11. Учёный, изучающий естественные науки, is a scientist, and the adjective is scientific. 12. Дисциплина. Science in its general sense is the study of the natural world based on facts, experiments, and observation. A word which can be used as a synonym for a particular science is discipline. The natural sciences are subjects such as biology, physics, and chemistry in which things that can be seen in nature are studied. A scientist is a person who studies or works in science to learn more about the world. In other words, a researcher, an academic, or an expert. And scientific means relating to or based on science or the scientific method. In other words, experimental, methodical, systematic. Biology and chemistry are two important branches of science. The word scientist usually refers to a person who works in natural or technical sciences like physics or biology using experiments and scientific methods. Please write down a scientist. How do you spell scientist? It's spelled as S-C-I-E-N-T-I-S-T. Write the translation. Учёный, изучающий естественные науки. 10. Учёный-исследователь в любой сфере, либо в сфере гуманитарных наук. Однокоренное прилагательное научный, академический, существительное стипендие, научная деятельность. Listen and repeat. A scholar. Note the pronunciation of the S-C-H combination. Scholar. The adjective is scholarly. It translates as научный, академический. And the noun which translates as стипендия, а также научная деятельность, is scholarship. A scholar is a person who studies a subject in depth. Especially at a university, some good synonyms for scholars are academics, researchers, and experts. So scientists are scholars. However, not all scholars are scientists. A scientist. Typically this word is used for a person who works in natural or technical sciences such as physics or biology. It's a person who uses experiments and scientific methods. A scholar, by contrast, is a learned person who studies and researches academic subjects broadly, including the humanities like history, literature, or philosophy. Once again, all scientists are scholars, but not all scholars are scientists. The adjective scholarly means relating to serious study and learning. Some good synonyms for scholarly are academic, learned, and intellectual. Note the pronunciation of learned, which translates as ученый, ирудированный. So the adjective learned, l-e-a-r-n-e-d, is pronounced with an id at the end. A learned person who has studied a subject for a long time. Whereas the past simple form of learn is pronounced as learned. It has the same spelling, but a different pronunciation. So learn, the past of learn is learned, and the past participle is also learned. Whereas the adjective is pronounced as learned, ирудированный ученый. In other words, scholarly. A scholarship is a financial award for study, a grant, its study support, and it can also mean research in a broader sense. Some students receive scholarships to study at university. Here are some common collocations with scholarly. Scholarly articles, научные статьи, scholarly interests, scholarly work, scholarly research, научные исслед, scholarly journals, научные журналы, scholarly disciplines, научные дисциплины. Please write down the noun scholar, it's spelled as s-c-h-o-l-a-r, and write down the translation ученый исследователь в любой сфере, а также в сфере гуманитарных наук. And write down the adjective scholarly. The spelling is s-c-h-o-l-a-r-l-y. Write down the translation научный академический. Eleven. Физик, ученый физик. И похожее слово, врач, врач-терапевт, доктор. Listen and repeat. A physicist. A physicist translates into Russian as physique. A physicist is a scientist who studies physics, the science of matter and energy. Not to be confused with a physician. A physician translates into Russian as vrach, vrach-terapet, doctor. A physician is a medical doctor. You may see an abbreviation, an MD for a medical doctor. And there is another commonly used abbreviation AGP, which stands for general practitioner. So an MD, a medical doctor or a GP, a general practitioner is a physician. Whereas a scientist who studies physics is a physicist. The physicist studies the laws of nature and energy. Whereas the physician treats patients. In this unit, we're focusing on renowned Russian physicists and their innovations in physics. So, for example, Alexander Popov, Moisei Markov and Grigory Domogadsky, they were all prominent physicists. Twelve. The psychic. The psychic translates into Russian as psyche. Note the spelling. The spelling is the same as the spelling of the Russian word psyche. The spelling is the same as the spelling of the Russian word psyche. The spelling is the same as the spelling of the Russian word psyche. Note the spelling and the pronunciation. So the first P is a silent P, it's not pronounced. And the CH are pronounced as K as in other words of Greek origin. So the E at the end is not silent, it's pronounced as E. So it's psyche. The adjective is psychic. The scholarly discipline which studies the psyche is called psychology. Listen and repeat. Psychology. Psychology is considered to be a social science. The adjective is psychological. Psychological. And scholars who study psychology are called psychologists. Psychologists study the human mind and human emotions and behavior and how different situations have an effect on people. Those psychologists who work with people in order to help them are often called therapists or counselors. Some good synonyms for the word psyche are soul, mind, spirit. The psyche is the human mind, including emotions and unconscious processes. Psychology is the scientific study of the mind and behavior. Lev Vogotsky was a renowned Soviet psychologist who focused on analyzing how people learn new skills through interaction with others. He pioneered the concept of the zone of proximal development. Please write the following words for numbers 11 and 12. Please write down a physicist. It's spelled as P-H-Y-S-I-C-I-S-T. A physicist. Write the translation. Physic. Write the word physician. A physician. The spelling is P-H-Y-S-I-C-I-A-N. A physician. Translates as a vrachoterapeut. For number 12, write down two words. The first is psyche. It's spelled as P-S-Y-C-H-E. Write down its synonym. The human mind. And write down the translation. And the second word is psychologist. The spelling is P-S-Y-C-H-O-L-O-G-I-S-T. A psychologist. Translates as psycholog. Now please write down the name of a famous physicist that you admire.
 13. Обучать, воспитывать – это глагол и однокоренные слова, существительное образование, воспитание, прилагательное образовательный, а также существительное просветитель. Listen and repeat. To educate. To educate. Note the pronunciation of the letter D, it's pronounced as dj, educate. The noun is education, education, and the adjective is educational, educational. The word which translates into Russian as просветитель is an educator, educator. To educate means to teach or train someone, to instruct, to tutor. A lawyer by education, Konstantin Dmitrievich Ushinsky became famous as a Russian teacher and educator who was passionate about improving teaching methods. He authored a number of popular textbooks teaching children how to read, such as Детский мир, which translates as the children's world, and Родное слово, which translates as the native word. He founded the first scientific educational system in Russia. Please write down the verb to educate. The spelling is educate, to educate. Write down the translation, обучать, воспитывать. 14. Подход, способ и однокоренной глагол подходить, приближаться. Listen and repeat. Approach, an approach. Note that the letters oa are pronounced as a diphthong, o, not oa, o. Approach, an approach is a noun, and the verb is to approach. An approach, which translates into Russian as подход, is a way or method of doing something. A good synonym for an approach is a strategy or a method. The verb to approach means to come near or nearer to something or someone, to move closer, to reach. The train is approaching the station. Here is another example with approach as a noun. The socio-cultural approach in education was pioneered in the late 1920s and early 1930s by Lev Ogotsky. This is a method of teaching which focuses on social interaction between students. In this method, two or more students learn from each other by sharing their knowledge, resources, and skills. In the second half of the 20th century, this method was further developed by other scholars and teachers into a widely used practice known as collaborative learning. Please write down the noun, an approach. It's spelled as a-double-p-r-o-a-c-h, and write the translation, подход способ. The word approach is usually followed by the preposition to, an approach to something. For example, a new approach to learning languages. Listen and repeat. A pioneer. Pioneer. The stress is on the second syllable. Pioneer. The verb has the same form, to, pioneer. And the adjective, инновационный, передовой translates into English as pioneering. A pioneer is a person who is one of the first to explore or develop a new area or idea. An innovator. The verb to pioneer means to be the first to develop or use something new, to open up new areas. And the adjective pioneering means involving new ideas or methods. Some good synonyms for pioneering are innovative, original, groundbreaking. Сергей Павлович Королёв was a renowned Soviet aerospace engineer who designed vehicles for space exploration. He was the person who pioneered the first artificial satellite to orbit Earth called Sputnik 1. It was successfully launched on the 4th of October in 1957 as part of the Soviet space program. Юрий Валентинович Кноразов was a renowned Soviet linguist and ethnographer who pioneered a special method for deciphering ancient writing systems based on positional statistics. Using this method, the scholar was able to decode the writing system of the ancient Maya. Please write down the expression who pioneered. The spelling of pioneered is p-i-o-n-double-e-r-e-d. Who pioneered. The person who pioneered. Тот, кто разработал что-либо новое. Sixteen. Автор. Соавтор. Стать автором вместе с кем-либо. Соавтор. Существительное авторство. Слышите и повторите. Автор. Обратите внимание на pronuncation of the letters a-u, they are pronounced as a single vowel. Focus on the introdental the. Автор. An author. The next word is a co-author, which translates into Russian as sa-av-ter. A co-author. Note the pronunciation, so the prefix co is pronounced with a diphthong o, so not ko, but o-co. Co-author. The stress is on the second syllable, co-author, but you still need to pronounce the diphthong clearly. Co-author. This word may be written with or without the hyphen, so it can be written as one word. Co-author without the hyphen. Or it can be hyphenated with a hyphen after co. A co-author. The verb is to, co-author. To author, стать автором. To co-author translates as стать автором вместе с кем-либо. Авторство-са-авторство translates into English as authorship and co-authorship. Once again, make sure you're pronouncing the diphthong clearly. Co, then the single vowel o and u are pronounced together as o. Focus on the diphthong. Co-authorship. Do not pronounce the r so as to avoid rolling your tongue too far back, so keep the tip of your tongue to the front. Co-author. Make the sh softer. And the short i sound, which is a sound between the Russian sounds e and e. More like ye. Co-authorship. O, co, o. Focus on the introdental. Co-author, soft sh and the i sound, ship. Ship. Authorship. Co-authorship. An author is a person who writes a book, an article or any other kind of text. A co-author is a person who writes a text together with one or more other authors. And the verb to co-author means to write a text together with someone else. Yuri Valentinovich Knorzov, a renowned Soviet linguist and ethnographer, was passionate about animals and especially cats. He always included his cat's name as a co-author of his scholarly articles. Please write down the verb to co-author. It's spelled as c o hyphen a u t h o r. To co-author. Write down the translation. Стать соавтором. Создавать текст вместе с кем-либо. Seventeen. Слава, известность. Это существительное и однокоренное прилагательное, известное и прославленное. Listen and repeat. Renown. The noun is renown. Note the spelling. So it's spelled as r e and the first e is pronounced as an e sound. Re, not re. Re. And then the second part of the word o w n is pronounced as o. It's pronounced the same as the word noun. Существительное. Renown, but spelled differently. The adjective, известный, прославленный, translates into English as renowned. The e at the end is not pronounced, so it's just renowned. Renowned. Renowned means famous or well-known for something, celebrated, honored, acclaimed. Also prominent. Николай Иванович Лобачевский was a renowned Russian mathematician who pioneered non-Euclidean geometry, also known as hyperbolic geometry. Please write down renowned. It's spelled as r e n o w n e d. Renowned. Write down its synonym. Prominent. The spelling is p r o m i n e n t. And write down the translation. Известный, прославленный.
 18. Искусственный спутник. Listen and repeat. An artificial satellite. Artificial. So, do not pronounce the R so as to avoid rolling your tongue too far back. Keep it to the front. Make the SH softer. Artificial. Satellite. An artificial satellite. An artificial satellite is a device sent up into space to travel around the Earth, used for collecting information, communicating, and navigation. It's a man-made object or a space vehicle launched into orbit around a planet or other celestial body. It is used for communication, weather, navigation, or scientific research. The first artificial satellite to orbit Earth called Sputnik 1 was successfully launched on the 4th of October in 1957 as part of the Soviet space program. It was pioneered by a renowned Soviet aerospace engineer Sergei Pavlovich Krolyov. Please write down this expression. An artificial satellite. How do you spell artificial? The spelling is A-R-T-I-F-I-C-I-A-L. Artificial. And what's the spelling of satellite? It's spelled as S-A-T-E-L-L-I-T-E. Satellite. An artificial satellite translates into Russian as искustinyy sputnik. Number 19. Запускать, стартовать. Это глагол и однокоренное существительное. Запуск, старт. Listen and repeat. Launch. Launch. Note the pronunciation. The letters A and U are pronounced as a single vowel or launch. To launch is a verb and the noun has the same form. A launch. To launch something means to send or shoot something like a rocket or satellite into the air or space. So that's the literal meaning and the figurative meaning is to start or begin something. The noun launch means the start of something important. The first artificial satellite to orbit Earth called Sputnik 1 was successfully launched on the 4th of October in 1957 as part of the Soviet space program. It was pioneered by renowned Soviet aerospace engineer Sergei Pavlovich Krolyov. Please write down the verb to launch. How do you spell launch? It's spelled as L-A-U-N-C-H. To launch translates as запускать, стартовать. 20. Устанавливать строительные леса и в переносном значении в контексте обучения означает поддерживать. Однокоренное существительное строительные леса и другая форма существительного, которая имеет такое же значение строительные леса. Listen and repeat. To scaffold. Scaffold. So in this word the O can be pronounced as an unstressed schwa sound scaffold or it may also be pronounced as a diphthong O sound scaffold. To scaffold or to scaffold. To scaffold as a verb means to provide a temporary structure for workers to stand on, which is done for during building or repair work. But more often than not, this verb is used in educational contexts, which means to support or to provide a framework. A scaffold is a temporary wooden or metal platform used to support workers and materials during construction or repair. So if you when you have a whole system of scaffolds, it's called scaffolding. Scaffolding is the system or structure of scaffolds used in building. Instructional scaffolding is the support given to a student by an instructor or teacher throughout the learning process. The method of teaching in the zone of proximal development. Zone of the nearest development. In other words, teaching in the ZPD. This method was originally pioneered in the early 1930s, and then it was further developed by other scholars and teachers into the method known as instructional scaffolding. In this method, teachers help students learn and do tasks that are more difficult than what students can do on their own. According to the creators concept, according to Vygotsky, children learn best when they get support to do tasks that are just beyond what they can do or learn independently. With help from teachers, parents or friends, children can achieve more and grow their skills step by step. The support is gradually minimized as children become able to do the tasks by themselves. This process is reminiscent of removing the scaffolding when a building is finally finished and can stand on its own. Please write down the word scaffolding. It's spelled as S-C-A-F-F-O-L-D-I-N-G scaffolding. Write the translation. Twenty-one. Listen and repeat. To receive wireless signals. Note the pronunciation of the letter E in receive. The first two E's are pronounced as E and the last E is silent. Receive. To receive wireless signals means to get or take electronic signals sent without wires, often using radio waves. Sat navs, satellite navigation. Sat navs are devices which receive wireless signals from the satellite to provide GPS navigation. Alexander Stepanovich Popov pioneered the first device to send and receive wireless signals. In an official demonstration, which took place in St. Petersburg in 1896, radio signals were transmitted between two different campus buildings located 250 meters apart. Please write down the verb to receive. It's spelled as R-E-C-E-I-V-E. To receive and write the translation. Twenty-two. To receive and receive. Generally accepted. Once again, it's generally accepted. Generally accepted means regarded as normal, correct, or true by most people. In other words, it's widely approved or agreed upon. The first generally accepted version of the periodic table was published in 1869. Please write down the expression generally accepted. How do you spell that? The spelling of generally is G-E-N-E-R-A-L-L-Y, generally, and accepted is spelled as A-C-E-P-T-E-D. Generally accepted. Write the translation. Twenty-three. Don't include geometry. First, just listen. Listen and repeat. Euclidean. Non-euclidean. Geometry. Non-euclidean geometry. Non-euclidean geometry is a branch of mathematics which explores shapes and spaces on curved surfaces. Another expression for non-euclidean geometry is hyperbolic geometry. Nikolai Ivanovich Lobachevsky was a renowned Russian mathematician who pioneered non-euclidean geometry, also known as hyperbolic geometry. He wrote down his ideas in the early 1820s, and his first treatise on hyperbolic geometry was published in the Kazan messenger, Kazansky Vesnik, in 1829. Please write down the expression non-euclidean geometry. How do you spell non-euclidean? The spelling is N-O-N-hyphen-defis. Capital E-e-u-c-l-i-d-e-a-n. Non-euclidean. The spelling of geometry is G-e-o-m-e-t-r-y. And write down the expression which is synonymous to non-euclidean geometry. Hyperbolic geometry. How do you spell hyperbolic? Hyperbolic. It's H-y-p-e-r-b-o-l-i-c. Hyperbolic geometry. 24. Tractat. Listen and repeat. A treatise. Treatise. Note that the first E is long E, while the second E is short. Tis. The S at the end is pronounced as an unvoiced S. Tis. Treatise. A treatise. For example, a treatise on hyperbolic geometry. A treatise is a formal and detailed written study or explanation of a subject. Lobachevsky's first treatise on hyperbolic geometry was published in the Kazan messenger in 1829. Nikolay Ivanovich Lobachevsky was a renowned Russian mathematician who pioneered non-euclidean geometry, also known as hyperbolic geometry. Please write down the word a treatise. How do you spell treatise? It's spelled as T-r-e-a-t-i-s-e. Treatise. It translates into Russian as трактат.
 25. Нитрина. Listen and repeat. A neutrino. Neutrino has two variants in pronunciation. It can be pronounced as new-tree-no or new-tree-no. Neutrino. A neutrino is an elementary subatomic particle, which is much smaller than an electron, with no electric charge and a very small mass. It interacts very weakly with matter, allowing these particles to pass through most objects. Maisey Markov and Grigory Domogatsky were renowned Soviet physicists who pioneered the Baikal Deep Underwater Neutrino Telescope, presently known as the Baikal GVD. The project for a neutrino telescope in Baikal began in the 1980s, and the first version was completed in 1998. It was upgraded in the 2000s, and it continues to function today. It is a giant detector used to catch the activity of invisible particles called neutrinos. Studying neutrinos, some of which come from space, is a new way to explore the Universe. Please write down the following expression. The neutrino particle. How do you spell neutrino? It's spelled as n-e-u-t-r-i-n-o. And how do you spell particle? The spelling of particle is p-a-r-t-i-c-l-e. The neutrino particle. It translates into Russian as частица нейтрина. It's a particle which is smaller than an electron. 26. Расшифровать. Listen and repeat. To decipher. To decipher. Decipher. Note the spelling. Ph is pronounced as f-d-s-i-f-e-r. To decipher means to find the meaning of something that is difficult to read or understand. Some good synonyms for to decipher are to decode or to interpret. Yuri Valentinovich Knorozov was a renowned Soviet linguist and ethnographer who pioneered a special method for deciphering ancient writing systems based on positional statistics. Using this method, the scholar was able to decipher the writing system of the ancient Maya. First published in the 1950s, Knorozov's findings at the time were considered to be nearly as important as the launch of the first artificial satellite. Please write down the verb to decipher. How do you spell decipher? It's spelled as d-e-c-i-p-h-e-r. To decipher translates into Russian as расшифровать. 27. Предсказывать закономерности или последовательность. Listen and repeat. To predict patterns. To predict patterns means to say or show what will happen based on observing repeated events or behaviors. In other words, to identify regular sequences or trends. Known as Markov chain or a Markov process, this model helps predict patterns in many areas like weather, language and web search results. Scientists predict patterns in climate change to understand future weather. Please write down to predict patterns. How do you spell predict? It's p-r-e-d-i-c-t. And the spelling of patterns is p-a-d-t-e-r-n-s. To predict patterns. Which translates into Russian as предсказывать закономерности. 28. Основывать, учреждать. Listen and repeat. To found. To found is a verb which translates into Russian as основать, учреждать. Don't get it confused with the verb to find, находить, the past simple and the past participle forms of which are found. So, found, нашел, the past form of find. And there's a different verb, to found, which means основать. Основатель translates into English as a founder. And the adjective Основглагающий translates into English as founding. The noun foundation translates into Russian as фундамент, основа. And the adjective is foundational, which translates as фундаментальный, основной. Finally, the adverb is foundationally, основательно, фундаментально. To found means to start or establish something new like a company or organization. Some good synonyms are to launch or to set up. A founder is a person who starts or establishes something new. The adjective founding means that it is referring to the time when an organization or state first came into existence. So, a common collocation is the founding principles, Основополагающие принципы. A foundation is the base or support on which something is built. And foundational means serving as an important base or starting point. The synonym for foundational is fundamental. And a synonym for foundationally is fundamentally, in a way that relates to being important or basic. Fundamentally. A lawyer by education, Konstantin Dmitrievich Ushinsky, became famous as a Russian teacher and educator who was passionate about improving teaching methods. He founded the first scientific educational system in Russia. The founder of this system, Konstantin Dmitrievich Ushinsky, believed that education should be compulsory for everyone, including peasants, girls and women, and that everyone should have a right to receive free education. In the 1860s, the future founder of the system, Ushinsky, traveled abroad to learn about the educational systems in Europe. He spent several years studying the school systems in different countries, especially those in Switzerland. Please write down the verb to found. Write the translation. The spelling for found is f-o-u-n-d. And write down the noun, a founder. The spelling of founder is f-o-u-n-d-e-r. Write down the translation, a founder. Twenty-nine. Publish, publish. These are the verb and the root words. Substantial publisher. Substantial publishing. Substantial publication. And the verb, unpublished. Listen and repeat. To publish. To publish is a verb. The noun publisher translates into Russian as izdatel. And the compound noun, a publishing house, translates into Russian as izdatelstvam. The words publisher and publishing house are synonymous. They can be used interchangeably. However, for large organizations, the expression a publishing house is typically used. Whereas an individual who publishes something on his own is a publisher. The noun publication translates as publikatsie. And the adjective unpublished translates as neopublikovany. To publish means to prepare and make a book, article, or other work available to the public. A publisher is a person or company that produces books, magazines, or newspapers. A publishing house is a company that produces and sells books or magazines. A publication is a book, magazine, newspaper, or document in which information or stories are published. Finally, unpublished means not made public or not yet printed. The Markov processes were studied in the early 1900s, and the first paper on the topic was published in 1906. In 1952, Yuri Knorozov published a paper called Ancient Writing of Central America, where he explained his method for deciphering ancient languages based on positional statistics. In 1975, he published his own translations of Mayan manuscripts. His publication was titled The Maya Hieroglyphic Manuscripts. Please write down the noun a publication. It's spelled as P-U-B-L-I-C-A-T-I-O-N. Publication translates into Russian as публикация, выпуск, издание. Listen and repeat. An article. An article translates into Russian as статья. Apart from this translation, it can also translate as артикль in grammar. But in our context, it means статья, an article. A scientific article translates into Russian as научная статья. And a synonymous expression is a scholarly article. Please repeat. A scholarly article. A scholarly article translates into Russian as академическая или научная статья. And finally, a scientific paper or a scholarly paper translates as любая научная работа или публикация. An article is a piece of writing included in a newspaper, magazine, or a journal. A scientific article is an article that reports new scientific research or findings. A scholarly article is a synonym for a scientific article, but it has a slightly broader meaning. It's an article written by experts and reviewed by other experts before publishing. Finally, a scientific paper or a scholarly paper is a piece of writing on a particular subject written by an expert and usually published in a book or journal or read aloud as a presentation. In 1952, Yuri Knorozov published a scholarly paper called Ancient Writing of Central America, where he explained his method for deciphering ancient languages based on positional statistics.
 Теория, иоднокоренные слова, теорема, прилагательное теоретически, наречие теоретически, существительное теоретик и глагол теоретизировать, строить теорию. Listen and repeat. Theory. Please focus on the intradental, the unvoiced intradental and then the eo vowels can be pronounced either as a diphthong ea, notice not o, but a ea, or just as a long e. So you can say theory, theory or simply theory. The next word is theorem. Also be careful, focus on the intradental and the eo can be pronounced either as an ea diphthong or a long e sound. So a theorem or a theorem, theorem. The next word is the adjective theoretical. It's a diphthong ea, focus on the intradental, theoretical, theoretical. And the adverb is theoretically, theoretically. The next word is theorist, which translates into Russian as теоретик. The combination of vowels eo are pronounced as a diphthong ea, theorist, a theorist. And finally the verb to theorize translates into Russian as теоретизировать, строить теорию. This word also has two variants in pronunciation, so the combination of letters e and o can be pronounced as the diphthong ea or simply as an e sound. So it's either theorize, focus on the intradental, theorize, or simply theorize. Note the voiced z sound at the end, make sure that you're not de-voicing it, so it's theorize, theorize. And note the two variants in spelling. Theorize may be spelt either with a z at the end or with an s at the end. So the British spelling is with an s at the end, whereas the American spelling is usually with a z. To theorize. A theory is a set of ideas or principles that explain something, whereas a theorem is a proven statement in mathematics based on previously accepted facts. A theorist is a person who develops or studies theories, and to theorize means to form ideas or explanations about something. Маисей Марков был знаменитым советским теоретическим физикатом, который участвовал в квантомных механизмах, нуклеарных физиках и астрофизиках. Он был первым, чтобы предложить идею создания нутриновых телескопов под водой. Here's another example. Николай Лобачевский's treatise on hyperbolic geometry presented a theoretical breakthrough. Please write down the verb to theorize and please write both spellings. So the first one is the British spelling, t-h-e-o-r-i-s-e, and the American spelling is t-h-e-o-r-i-z-e. Above the first word with the s spelling, note capital B-r-e. This stands for British English. And above the second word, spelled with a z at the end, make a note, capital A, lowercase m, capital E. This stands for American English. To theorize translates into Russian as теоретизировать, строить теорию. 32. На рубеже веков, например, 20 и 21 века, и на рубеже тысячелетий. Just listen first. At the turn of the 21st century. You can say at the turn of the century. На рубеже веков. В английском мы используем форму единственного числа, на рубеже века, и можно указать какого века of the 21st century. And the second expression, at the turn of the millennium. At the turn of the millennium, which translates into Russian as на рубеже тысячелетий. Listen and repeat. The millennium. At the turn of is pronounced as a single word, use connected speech. At the turn of the millennium. At the turn of the century means around the transition from one century to another. In the expression at the turn of the millennium, we're specifically talking about the late 1990s and the early 2000s. Here's an example. At the turn of the 21st century, Andrey Andreevich Markov pioneered an innovative way to study probability and random processes in systems that change step by step over time, where each step depends only on the previous one. Please write down the expression at the turn of the 21st century. At the turn, which is spelled as t-u-r-n, of the 21st in parentheses, 21st 21st. And century. The spelling of century is c-e-n-t-u-r-y. At the turn of the century or at the turn of the 21st century. Write the translation на рубеже веков. Thirty-three. В тысячесемисотых годах, в тысячевосьмисотых годах, в тысячедевятисотых годах. Listen, first just listen. In the seventeen hundreds. Look at the word hundreds. There's a letter d, so it's hundreds. Be careful so that you don't end up saying hungry. Hundreds. The seventeen hundreds. The seventeen hundreds, when written out, it's typically hyphenated. The seventeen hundreds. The next one is in the eighteen hundreds. Please repeat hundreds. Hundreds. Eighteen hundreds. In the eighteen hundreds. The article the before a vowel is pronounced as the. Focus on the introdental the. In the eighteen hundreds. And finally, in the nineteen hundreds. In the nineteen hundreds. In the seventeen hundreds means from the year seventeen hundred to seventeen ten. So it refers to the time period spanning the first decade of a century. In the eighteen hundreds means from the year eighteen hundred to eighteen ten. In the nineteen hundreds means from the year nineteen hundred to nineteen ten. However, when we say hundreds in the seventeen hundreds and the eighteen hundreds and the nineteen hundreds. This can also be used in reference to the whole century or to the entire century. Spanning the period of time from the year seventeen hundred to seventeen ninety nine. In other words, during the eighteenth century. And in the eighteen hundreds can also mean spanning the period of time from the year eighteen hundred to eighteen ninety nine. In other words, during the nineteenth century. And in the nineteen hundreds can also mean spanning the period of time from the year nineteen hundred to nineteen ninety nine. In other words, during the twentieth century. Here's an example. The Markov processes were studied in the early nineteen hundreds. And the first paper on the topic was published in nineteen oh six. Please write down. In the nineteen hundreds. So please write both numbers and words in the and then the numbers one nine zero zero s. Do not use an apostrophe. Simply add an s. In parentheses, write out the words. Nineteen hyphen hundreds. How do you spell nineteen? It's n-i-n-e-t-double-e-n hyphen hundreds. H-u-n-d-r-e-d-s. Nineteen hundreds. In the nineteen hundreds. Write the translation. В тысяче девятисотых годах. Thirty four. В двухтысячных годах. First listen. In the two thousands. In the two thousands. Focus on the intradentals. In the article the and thousands. Two thousands when written out as words. It's typically hyphenated. In the two thousands. Listen and repeat. Thousands. Two thousands. Make sure the tip of your tongue is near the front teeth and that you're not moving it too far back. Two. In the two thousands. In the two thousands means during the first decade of the 21st century. It's the period of time between the year 2000 and 2009. The first version of the Baikal neutrino telescope was upgraded in the two thousands. And then again in the mid 2010s. It continues to function today. Thirty five. In the beginning of the 1990s or 2000s. 2010s and 2020s. In the beginning and in the end. In the end of 1990s. Listen and repeat. In the early 1990s. Note the pronunciation of the article. The is pronounced as the before a vowel in the early 1990s. In the early 1990s translates into Russian as начале девяностых годов. In the early 2000s translates as начале двухтысячных годов. In the early 2010s translates as начале две тысячи десятых годов. In the early 2020s translates as начале две тысячи двадцатых годов. В конце translates into English as in the late. In the late 1990s. Please listen and repeat. In the late 1990s. In the late 2000s. In the late 2010s. In the late 2020s. In the early 1990s or 2000s means at the beginning of the decade. It refers to the first part of a decade. Exemplary Gratia. For example, the early 1990s means around 1990 to 1994. In the late 1990s means at the end of the decade. It refers to the last part of a decade. Exemplary Gratia. In the late 1990s means around 1995 to 1999. Here are some examples. The Markov processes were studied in the early 1900s. And the first paper on the topic was published in 1906. In the early 1950s. Euryk Norozov published a paper called ancient writing of Central America. The first version of the Baikal deep underwater neutrino telescope was completed in the late 1990s. Please write down the following expression. In the early E-A-R-L-Y, Slash, косая черта, late, L-A-T-E. Two thousands. So write the number 2000 and add an S at the end. So it's 2000S. And then in parenthesis write out the words. Two hyphen-thousands. T-H-O-U-S-A-N-D-S. In the early 2000s or in the late 2000s. So this is for both numbers 34 and 35. And write the translation. In the beginning, at the end of the 2000s, one word is written. In the middle of the 2020s. Note the spelling. It's M-I-D, mid, hyphen, 2020s. In the mid 2020s means halfway through the decade. Around the year 2025. Here's an example sentence. In the mid 1970s Knorizov published his own translations of Mayan manuscripts. His publication was titled The Maya Hieroglyphic Manuscripts. Please write down the expression in the mid 2020s. So the spelling is M-I-D, hyphen, 2020s. In the mid 2020s. Write the translation. В середине 2020-х годов.
 37. Вещество – химическое соединение. Иоднокоренные слова – химический, прилагательное, а также наречие – химический, существительный химик и существительная химия. Listen and repeat. A chemical. A chemical is both a noun and the word chemical can also be an adjective – химический. For example, a chemical compound – химическое соединение. The adverb chemically translates into Russian as – химический. And the noun chemist translates into Russian as – химик. Please repeat – chemist. A chemist. Finally, the scientific discipline is called chemistry. Please repeat – chemistry. A chemical is a substance used or produced by a reaction involving changes to atoms or molecules. A chemist is a scientist who studies or works in chemistry. It's a scientist who works with chemicals or studies their reactions. As a discipline, chemistry is a science that studies matter, its properties, and how substances interact and change. Дмитрий Иванович Менделеев был знаменитым русским химическим, который оптимизировал Periodic Table of Elements. Первая, в общем, accepted version of the Periodic Table was published in the late 1860s, in 1869, to be precise. The Periodic Table of Elements is a special chart where elements are arranged or organized into rows, which are called periods, and columns, which are called groups. These elements are organized by their properties. This great innovation helps scientists predict undiscovered elements, making chemistry easier to understand and use. Please write down the word chemist. The spelling is C-H-E-M-I-S-T. A chemist. Write the translation – hemic. Now please write down the collocation – a chemical compound. How do you spell chemical? It's C-H-E-M-I-C-A-L – chemical. And what's the spelling of compound? It's spelled as C-O-M-P-O-U-N-D – a chemical compound. It translates into Russian as – химическое соединение или химическое вещество. 38. Свойство – характеристика. И второе значение у этого слова – имущество – принадлежность. Listen and repeat – property. We're interested in the first meaning of property, which is a quality of something, but the word property also means a belonging or belongings. Again, in this unit we're interested in the first meaning of property as a quality. So a property is a quality or characteristic of something. For example, the periodic table of elements is a special chart where elements are arranged by their properties. So they're organized into rows, which are called periods, and columns, which are called groups, by their properties. Please write down the word property. How do you spell property? It's P-R-O-P-E-R-T-Y. Write down its synonym – quality. The spelling is Q-U-A-L-I-T-Y. A property or a quality translates into Russian as – свойство или характеристика. 39. Гуманитарные науки или дисциплины, а также гуманитарная дисциплина или предмет. Listen and repeat – the humanities. This word is usually used in its plural form – the humanities. In the singular form it has a different meaning. Humanity translates into Russian as – человечество или человечность, а также гуманизм. But the plural form is used to refer to a group of academic subjects that study human culture and society, such subjects as history, literature, and philosophy. If you want to talk about a single discipline or subject, you can say that it's a humanities discipline or a humanities subject. A humanities discipline is one specific subject or field within the humanities, like history or philosophy. The university offers many courses in the humanities. History is a humanities discipline. Apart from the humanities subjects, there are also natural sciences, such as physics, chemistry, and biology, where things seen in nature are studied. And there are social sciences, such as economics, psychology, sociology, and political science, which study human behavior. Mathematics, however, is a special kind of science, known as a formal science. Unlike natural sciences that study physical objects and social sciences that study human behavior, mathematics studies abstract structures and relationships through pure reason and logical deduction. Please write down the humanities. How do you spell humanities? The spelling is H-U-M-A-N-I-T-I-E-S. The humanities. Write the translation. And finally, last but not least, number 40. Предлог или наречие, которое переводится как за пределами чего-либо, вне или сверх. Listen and repeat. Beyond. Beyond can be either a preposition or an adverb. Beyond means further away in the distance than something, outside or after a stated limit. Beyond за пределами. According to Vygotsky's concept, children learn best when they get support to do tasks that are just beyond what they can do or learn independently. This is called teaching or learning in the zone of proximal development. Зоне ближайшего развития. Please write down the word beyond. The spelling is B-E-Y-O-N-D. Beyond. It translates into Russian as за пределами, вне, а также сверх.
