 One. Translate into English the following question. Какими другими иностранными языками вы хотели бы обладеть? Just listen the first time. What other languages would you like to be able to speak? Listen and repeat. What other languages? Note the pronunciation of the labial w sound. And the other word with the same sound w would. Make sure that your top teeth are not touching the bottom lip. Убедитесь, что верхние зубы не касаются нижней губы, иначе получится в. What would? The short o sound, средний между o и u, ближе к o. Д не оглушается на конце. What other? What your intrudentals are there? Other. What other? Languages. Remember that letter n is not pronounced in languages, it's the nasal m sound. The tip of your tongue is at the bottom, where the bottom teeth are, and the back part of the tongue is up against the soft palate. Спинка языка касается мягкого неба. Мягкое г, мягкое дж и з не оглушается на конце. And then use connected speech to be able to. To be able to speak. So the t is pronounced as t in connected speech, to be able to speak. What other languages? Would you like to be able to speak? Would you like to be able to speak? What other languages would you like to be able to speak? Another way of phrasing this question, apart from English, what foreign languages would you like to be fluent in? Please write down the whole question. What other languages would you like? How do you spell would? It's w-o-u-l-d. Once again, what other languages would you like to be able to speak? Question mark at the end. Please take two markers or highlighters or two different color pens or pencils. And circle or highlight letter w in what and in would. This is a reminder to pronounce the sound properly. Take a different color pen or highlighter and circle or highlight t-h in the word other. Remember to pronounce your intrudentals properly. What other languages would you like to be able to speak? Two. Translate into English. First, just listen. Apart from English, I'd like to be able to speak Japanese. Listen and repeat. Apart from English, I'd like to be able to speak Japanese. Note that the N in English is not pronounced. It's the n, the nasal sound, English. Use connected speech. I'd like to be able to speak. Apart from English, I'd like to be able to speak Japanese. Another way of phrasing this is in addition to English, I'd like to be fluent in Japanese. Please write down the following expression. I'd like to be able to speak. Once again, I'd, I'd, I, apostrophe D, that is, I would like to be able to speak. And write another foreign language, apart from English, that you'd like to learn. And write another expression. In addition to that, in addition, how do you spell addition? It's A, double D, I, T, I, O, N. In addition to that, comma, запятая, I'd like to be fluent in, how do you spell fluent? It's F, L, U, E, N, T. I'd like to be fluent in, and write one more foreign language that you'd like to learn. Three, кроме. Кроме в значении помимо, в дополнении к, наряду с. В английском языке разные слова переводятся как кроме на русский язык. Apart from. Apart from, this is an adverb, это предлог. Some synonyms for apart from include in addition to, besides, and other than. For example, apart from English, I'd like to be able to speak Japanese, Chinese. In addition to English, I'd like to be able to speak Dutch and Swedish. Besides English, I'd like to be able to speak Portuguese and Bulgarian. And other than English, I'd like to be able to speak Arabic. Please write down the adverb apart from. How do you spell apart? It's A, P, A, R, T, that's one word. And the second word is from. Write the translation кроме помимо, в дополнении к. For. Кроме в значении за исключением, это предлог, а также однокоренное существительное исключение, например, исключение из правил. Except for. Except is an adverb, это предлог. And the noun, существительное, an exception. The synonyms for except for are excluding, but can be used to mean except for, save for, and with the exception of. Here are some examples. The tasks on the test were easy, except for the last one. In other words, the tasks on the test were easy, save for the last one. You could also say, the tasks on the test were easy, all but the last one. So, but is usually preceded by all when it means except for. All but the last task were easy. All tasks were easy with the exception of the last one. Please write down except for. How do you spell except? It's E-X-C-E-P-T. And for. Except for. Write the translation, кроме, за исключением. Five. Как ты считаешь, пригодится ли тебе знание на странного языка в твоей профессии в будущем? Дословно, думаешь ли ты, что тебе понадобится знать иностранный язык для твоей будущей профессии или работы? Listen. Do you think you will need to know a foreign language for your future job? Once again. Do you think you will need to know a foreign language for your future job? Another way of phrasing this question is, will the knowledge of a foreign language be useful for your future career? What are your thoughts on that? What are your thoughts on the use of foreign languages in terms of career opportunities? You do not need to write anything down for number five. Six. Абсолютно уверен. I'm absolutely positive. Listen and repeat. Absolutely positive. Use connected speech. I'm absolutely positive. You could also say that you're certain. I'm certain. There's no doubt. There's no doubt in my mind that. Without a doubt. Undoubtedly. Unquestionably. And definitely. I'm absolutely positive that I'll need to know a foreign language for my future job so that I can work internationally and communicate with colleagues from other countries. Please write down. I'm absolutely positive. How do you spell absolutely? It's a-b-s-o-l-u-t-e-l-y. Absolutely. And how do you spell positive? It's p-o-s-i-t-i-v-e. I'm absolutely positive. Seven. Я уверен, что мне пригодится знание иностранного языка для будущей работы, чтобы я мог. I'm sure that I'll need to know a foreign language for my future job so that I could. In other words, I'm positive that knowing a foreign language will be useful for my future career because it will allow me to. Please write down. I'm sure that. How do you spell sure? It's s-u-r-e. Note the pronunciation. Sure. I'm sure that. Write the translation. Я уверен, что. And write a synonymous expression. I'm positive that. Я совершенно уверен. Eight. Чем бы вы не занимались профессионально, дословно независимо от того, чем вы занимаетесь. Just listen first. No matter what you do for a living. Circle the w in what. Use connected speech. No matter what. No matter what you do for a living. In other words, whatever your job is. I'm positive that knowing a foreign language is useful no matter what you do for a living. I'm absolutely positive that knowing a foreign language is useful whatever your job is. Please write down. No matter what you do for a living. How do you spell matter? It's m-a-t-t-e-r. No matter what you do for a living. Write the translation. Независимо от того, чем вы занимаетесь профессионально.
 9. Для того, чтобы общаться с людьми из других стран. Just listen the first time. In order to communicate with people from other countries. Listen and repeat. In order to. With. Note the pronunciation of W. It's a labial sound. And note the intradental the at the end. So with the. People. Make sure the E in people is pronounced as a long E. So it's people, not people. People. Other. Remember the intradental the in other. And note that OU in countries is pronounced as a single vowel. Countries. In fact, it's the same vowel as in the word other. So other countries. Remember to pronounce the S at the end as a voiced Z. Countries. Once again, listen and repeat. In order to. In order to communicate. With. People. From other countries. In other words, so as to interact with foreigners. I'm positive that I'll need to know a foreign language for my future job so that I can communicate with people from other countries. You do not need to write down anything for number nine. Number 10. Translate the question. Почему люди учат иностранные языки? Listen first. Why do people learn foreign languages? Listen and repeat. Why do people learn foreign languages? Why. Why do people learn foreign languages? Why do people learn foreign languages? In other words, what motivates people to learn foreign languages? What are some reasons for learning a foreign language? You do not need to write anything for number 10. Number 11. I believe that people take up foreign languages so that they can or so that they could. You can also use in order to. Listen and repeat. I believe that. Watch your intrudentals. That. I believe that. Do not devoise the v at the end of believe. Make sure you're pronouncing it as a v sound. I believe that people take up foreign languages. Watch your intrudentals. So that they can or they could. I believe that people take up foreign languages so that they can. In other words, in my opinion, people learn foreign languages in order to. Here's an example sentence. I believe that people take up foreign languages mainly so that they can communicate with people from different countries and of various cultural backgrounds. Please write down. I believe that. How do you spell believe? It's b-e-l-i-e-v-e. I believe that. Write the translation. Я считаю, что. В данном случае believe переводится как считаю, а не верю. 12. Это полезно для путешествий за границу. Listen first. It's useful for traveling abroad. Listen and repeat. Useful. Note that in the adjective useful, the s is pronounced as an unvoiced s. Useful. The noun use, польза. Буква s произносится глухо, use. И в прилагательном useful полезно также произносится как с. Как глухая с. Useful. И только в глаголе s произносится звонком use, to use something. Useful. It's useful for traveling abroad. In other words, it enhances your travel experiences. Please write down the word useful. How do you spell useful? It's u-s-e-f-u-l. There's only one l at the end. And highlight letter s in useful. And above that write in square brackets the s. В квадратных скобочках пометьте, что звук с, латинское с. Thirteen. Это полезно для карьеры. It's useful for your career. Once again, it's useful for your career. In other words, it helps you find a job. It opens up career opportunities. You do not need to write down anything for number thirteen. Number fourteen. Для того, чтобы иметь возможность работать на международном уровне. First listen. So as to work internationally. Listen and repeat. So as to. Oh. So. As. Make sure you're not devoicing the s at the end of as, even though it's followed by an unvoiced to. So as to. So as to. Work internationally. In other words, in order to work for an international organization, so that you have an opportunity to work internationally. Please write down. So as to work internationally. So as to work internationally. International. The a is pronounced as an a, international, internationally, not as an a. International. Internationally. How do you spell that? So as to work internationally. Fifteen. I'm looking forward to a career in tech. I'm looking forward to a career in science. I'm looking forward to a career in engineering. I'm looking forward to a career in teaching. Listen and repeat. Oh. Looking. The short o sound is a sound that's between the Russian o and u. It's closer to the o. Looking. Forward. Make sure you're pronouncing the w properly. Wward. Forward. Make sure that your top teeth are not touching your bottom lip. Make sure that your top teeth are not touching your bottom lip. Make sure that your top teeth are not touching your bottom lip. Forward. При отчётливом произношении forward, при очень быстром произношении, почти превращается в двойное o. Forward. I'm looking forward to a career in tech. Be careful, the ch is pronounced as k in tech. A career in science. A career in engineering. A career in teaching. I'm looking forward to a career in tech. I'm looking forward to a career in science. In other words, I hope to work in tech. I hope to work in science. I hope to become an engineer. I hope to become a scientist. I hope to become a teacher. Please write down the expression. I'm looking forward to a career in tech. I'm looking forward. And how do you spell that? It's f-o-r-w-a-r-d to a career, c-a-r-e-r, in tech. How do you spell tech? It's t-e-c-h. I'm looking forward to a career in tech. Write the translation. Мечтаю. В данном случае жду с нетерпением. I'm looking forward to. Переводится как мечтаю. Мечтаю работать в сфере IT. Get a different color pen or pencil. Circle the double o in looking. Remember the pronunciation of the short o sound. Circle the w in forward. And circle the c-h in tech. Next to tech in square brackets. Write letter k. Это звук к в транскрипции. Tech. Sixteen. Всесторонний, разносторонний, гармоничный. Например, всестороннее образование. Всесторонне развитая личность. Well rounded. Listen and repeat. Well rounded. Watch your pronunciation of the label w sound. Well rounded. A well rounded education. A well rounded individual. Note the pronunciation of letter d in education. And the second d in individual. So it's a j sound. Education. Individual. A well rounded education. A well rounded individual. Well rounded means having experience and knowledge in many different areas. Some experts worry that home school children may not receive a well rounded education. You can use well rounded to describe a person as a well rounded individual. Please write down. A well rounded. And how do you spell well rounded? It's w e w l hyphen. R o u n d e d. Circle letter w in well. And in parentheses. Education. E d u c a t i o n. Comma. Individual. I n d i v i d u a l. Write the translation. Всестороннее образование. Всесторонняя развитая личность.
 17. Это отличный способ тренировать ум. It's a great way to train your mind. Remember the pronunciation of the label ŭ in way. Make sure that your upper teeth are not touching the bottom lip. Убедитесь, что верхние зубы не касаются нижней губы. It's just a two lips way. It's a great way to train your mind. In other words, it's an excellent exercise for the brain. You don't need to write anything. 18. Полезно для психического здоровья. It's good for your mental health. Listen and repeat. О, good. So the short О sound, good. It's a sound that's between the Russian sounds О and У, ближе к О, Г, good. При очётливом произношении. And when you say it fast, it's even a ɷ, ɷ, ɷ. Good sound, good. ɷ is softer in English. ɷ чуть мягче в английском, чем в русском. ɷ, ɷ, ɷ, ɷ. ɷ не оглушаем. Good. It's good. It's good for... Watch your intrudentals in health. Health. It's good for your mental health. It keeps your brain healthy. You don't need to write anything for number 18. 19. Чтобы понять культуру и менталитет людей из другой культурной среды. Just listen first. In order to understand the way people from a different cultural background think. Listen and repeat. In order to... In order to understand... Watch your pronunciation of the label ɷ and the intrudental ɷ. The way. In order to understand the way people from a different cultural background think. Let's take a closer look at cultural. So the T is pronounced as a ɷ sound. The first U is pronounced as an ɷ. Once again, it's cultural. Background. And the last word is think. Watch your intrudentals. So the short ɷ sound is a sound that's between Russian sounds ɷ and ɪ. Kind of think ɷ. The N is not pronounced. It's an ɷ. The nasal ɷ sound. The tip of your tongue is at the bottom. And the back part of your tongue is up against the soft palate. The back of your tongue is up against the soft palate. Think. Soft ɷ. Intrudental ɷ. Think. In order to understand the way people from a different cultural background think. In other words, so as to understand the culture and mentality of the people who speak this language. Please write down the way people think. And write down the synonymous expression. Their way of thinking. Write the translation. образ мышления менталитет Twenty. Помогает лучше понять наш собственный язык и культуру. Listen. It helps to understand our own language and culture better. Listen and repeat. It helps to understand our own. So when we speak fast, the word our very often is just pronounced as our. Our own. Language. The N is not pronounced. It's the ɷ sound. G. Soft ɷ. Language. The second ɷ in language is pronounced as an ɷ sound. Language. And culture. Let your U in culture. The first U is pronounced as an ɷ sound. Culture. Better. It helps to understand our own language and culture better. In other words, it enhances our understanding of our own language and culture. You can also say that it deepens our understanding of our own language and culture. Please write down this expression. It helps to understand our own language and culture better. It helps to understand our own language and culture better. Twenty-one. It shows others that you like to learn new things. Listen. It shows others that you enjoy learning new things. Listen and repeat. The soft ɷ. O. Z. Make sure you're pronouncing the S at the end as a voiced ɷ. Shows. O shows. It shows. What your intrudentals? Others. Others. The O is pronounced as an ɷ sound. Others. Shows others. Show. Za. There's. It shows others that you enjoy learning new things. Make sure you're pronouncing the intrudental clearly. The short ɷ sound is a sound that's between Russian sounds ɷ and ɪ. Something like ɪ. The N and G are not pronounced. It's the nasal ɪ sound. And the S is pronounced as a voiced ɱ. Things. Things. Things. New things. It shows others that you enjoy learning new things. In other words, it tells others that you are eager to take up new challenges. It's a way to show that you appreciate gaining new knowledge and skills. You do not need to write anything for number 21. 22. It's a way to show your appreciation for another culture. Listen and repeat. A culture. Watch your intrudentals. Another culture. For another culture. For another culture. For another culture. Another culture. For another culture. Appreciation. Be careful that you are not substituting the ɷ sound with an ɪ. There is no ɪ in English, so apri. Appreciation. The ʃ is soft. Appreciation. Both the C and the T in appreciation are pronounced as a ʃ sound. Appreciation. To show your appreciation. To show your appreciation. Watch the label ɷ sound. A way. It's a way. It's a way to show your appreciation for another culture. It shows your respect for the culture of the country that you are traveling to or that you are visiting. Please write down this expression. It's a way to show your appreciation. And what's the spelling of appreciation? It's spelt as A-double-P-r-e-c-r-e-c-r. Double P-r-e-c-i-a-t-i-o-n. It's a way to show your appreciation for another culture. How do you spell culture? It's spelt as C-u-l-t-u-r-e. It's a way to show your appreciation for another culture. Twenty-three. Translate the following question. Что бы вы посоветовали учащимся, которые хотят улучшить свой английский? Just listen the first time. What would you recommend to students who want to improve their English? Listen and repeat. W-what. Make sure that your upper teeth are not touching the bottom lip. Убедитесь, что верхние зубы не касаются нижней губы. Участвуют только губы. W-what. The short O sound is closer to the Russian O. W-what. When you use connected speech, the W-u gives you the W-j sound. D is pronounced as a j. What would you recommend? The stress is on the last syllable. Recommend. What would you recommend to students who want to improve their English? Watch your intrudentials. There. And the N in English is not pronounced. It's a nasal sound. English. What would you recommend to students who want to improve their English? Another way to ask this question is... In your opinion, what are some effective ways for students to enhance their English? You do not need to write anything for number 23, number 24. Чтобы учащимся улучшить свой английский? In order for students to improve their English... Listen and repeat. In order for... In order for students... To improve their English... Watch your intrudentials. There. English. In order for students to improve their English... In other words, if a student wants to enhance his or her English, please write down the expression... In order for students to improve their English... In order for students to improve... And how do you spell improve? It's I-M-P-R-O-V-E. There. English. There is spelled as T-H-E-I-R. In order for students to improve their English, I'd recommend listening to podcasts and following along with the audio script.
 25. Я бы посоветовал слушать подкасты и одновременно читать текст расшифровки. 27. Смотрите, как я это делаю. 28. Смотрите, как я это делаю. 29. Смотрите, как я это делаю. 30. Смотрите, как я это делаю. 31. Смотрите, как я это делаю. 32. Смотрите, как я это делаю. 33. Смотрите, как я это делаю. 33. Смотрите, как я это делаю. 34. Смотрите, как я это делаю. 35. Смотрите, как я это делаю. 36. Смотрите, как я это делаю. 37. Смотрите, как я это делаю. 38. Смотрите, как я это делаю. 39. Смотрите, как я это делаю. 40. Смотрите, как я это делаю. 41. Смотрите, как я это делаю. 42. Смотрите, как я это делаю. 43. Смотрите, как я это делаю. 44. Смотрите, как я это делаю. 45. Смотрите, как я это делаю. 46. Смотрите, как я это делаю. Смотрите, как я это делаю. 47. Смотрите, как я это делаю. 48. Смотрите, как я это делаю. 49. Смотрите, как я это делаю. 50. Смотрите, как я это делаю. 51. Смотрите, как я это делаю. 52. Смотрите, как я делаю. 53. Смотрите, как я делаю. 54. Смотрите, как я делаю. 55. Смотрите, как я делаю. 56. Смотрите, как я делаю. 57. Смотрите, как я делаю. 58. Смотрите, как я делаю. 59. Смотрите, как я делаю. 60. Слушайте, как я делаю. 70. Слушайте, как я делаю. 80. Слушайте, как я делаю. 90. Слушайте, как я делаю. 90. Слушайте, как я делаю. 90. Слушайте, как я делаю. 90. Слушайте, как я делаю. Я посоветовал им слушать аудиокниги на английском и записаться в разговорный клуб для практики говорения. 27. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 27. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 27. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 27. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 27. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 27. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 27. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 27. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 27. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 29. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 29. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 29. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 29. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 29. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 29. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 29. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 30. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 30. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 30. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 30. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 30. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 30. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 30. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 30. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 30. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 30. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 30. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 30. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 30. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 30. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 30. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 30. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 30. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 30. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 30. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 30. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 30. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 30. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 30. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 30. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 30. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 30. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 30. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 30. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 30. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 30. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 30. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 30. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 30. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 30. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 30. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 30. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 30. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 30. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 30. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 30. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 30. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 30. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 30. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 30. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 30. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 30. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 30. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 30. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? 30. По вашему мнению, какой язык сам почитает на английском? Chinese Characters Chinese Characters Chinese Characters Chinese Characters Chinese Characters Chinese Characters Chinese Characters Chinese Characters Chinese Characters Chinese Characters Chinese Characters Chinese Characters Chinese Characters Chinese Characters Chinese Characters Chinese Characters Chinese Characters Chinese Characters Chinese Characters Chinese Characters Chinese Characters Chinese Characters Chinese Characters Chinese Characters Chinese Characters Chinese Characters Rules Rules Rules Rules Rules Rules Rules Rules Rules Rules Rules Rules Rules Rules Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm Rhythm
 33. Обладать честной личной связью страной или культурой. Listen. To have a strong personal link to a country or to a culture. Listen and repeat. Personal. The E in personal is pronounced as an O sound. Personal. Link. The N is not pronounced in link. It's a nasal sound. The tip of your tongue is at the bottom. Кончик языка внизу, нижних зубов, спинка касается мягкого неба. Link. Inhale and exhale through your nose. Дох и выдох через нос. Link. And the same sound in strong. The N is not pronounced nor is the G. Strong. Strong. Link. Listen and repeat. To have. To have a strong personal link to a country or to a culture. To have a strong personal link to a country or to a culture means to feel very connected to a particular culture. I especially like Japanese for its melody and rhythm and because they have a strong personal link to the country. Please write down the expression. To have a strong personal link to a culture. Once again, to have a strong personal link to a culture. The spelling of culture is C-U-L-T-U-R-E. Thirty-four. На уроках английского в школе мы читаем научно-популярные статьи, слушаем аудиозаписи, выполняем задания по грамматике, пишем письма и развиваем навыки устной речи, работая в парах. This is a long one. На уроках английского в школе мы читаем научно-популярные статьи, слушаем аудиозаписи, выполняем задания по грамматике, Do grammar exercises, пишем письма, write letters и развиваем навыки устной речи, and practice speaking with a partner. Watch your pronunciation of the label w and the intonation th in with, with, with a partner. Listen and repeat. In our English class at school, we read science articles, we listen to audio recordings, we do grammar exercises, we write letters, and we practice speaking with a partner. Another way of saying that is, At our school English lessons, we practice our listening, reading, writing, and speaking skills. Please write down. We read science articles. We read science. The spelling of science is articles. How do you spell articles? It's a-r-t-i-c-l-e-s. We read science articles. Write the translation. We read science articles. In addition to this, every week we do weekly vocabulary quizzes. Listen and repeat. In addition to that, Watch your intrudentals, that, In addition to that, Focus on the label w sound in we and weekly. We, weekly, but vocabulary is just the regular w sound. So use both lips to pronounce we and weekly. But for vocabulary, your top teeth are touching the bottom lip. Touching the bottom lip. На слове vocabulary верхние зубы касаются нижней губы. Но зубы не участвуют при произнесении we and weekly. We have weekly vocabulary quizzes. In addition to that, we have weekly vocabulary quizzes. Now let's focus on the pronunciation of vocabulary. So it's o-v-o-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v-v- In addition to that, we have weekly vocabulary quizzes. Every week we write vocabulary tests. Please write down weekly vocabulary quizzes. Weekly. How do you spell that? It's w-e-k-l-y. Vocabulary. The spelling is v-o-c-a-b-u-l-a-r-y. Vocabulary. Vocabulary. Quizzes. The spelling is q-u-i-double-z-e-s. Quizzes. Quizzes. Weekly vocabulary quizzes. Thirty-six. Где проходят очные занятия? Translate this question. Where do offline classes take place? Once again, it's w-where, o-do, offline classes take place. Where do offline classes take place? Another way of phrasing this question is Where are the offline classes held? Please write down the question. Where do offline classes take place? Question mark at the end. Where do offline classes take place? Thirty-seven. Translate the following question. Сколько учеников обычно в группе? How many students are usually in a group class? In other words, what is the average size of a group? You don't need to write anything down for number thirty-seven. The next one is thirty-eight. Какова продолжительность курса? Translate this question. What is the duration of the course? Watch the pronunciation of the label w in what. Focus on the intradental the. What is the duration of the course? What is the duration of the course? In other words, how long does the course last? Please write down the word duration. How do you spell that? It's duration. Write the translation. Длительность или продолжительность? Write down the question. How long does the course last? Как долго длится курс? Такова продолжительность курса. Number thirty-nine. Сколько занятий в неделю должны посещать студенты? How many lessons a week do students have to attend? In other words, how many lessons a week are there? Please write down to attend. How do you spell attend? It's a-double-t-e-n-d. And write down the translation. Посещать. And last but not least. Number forty. Самостоятельное обучение в собственном темпе? Self-paced learning. Once again, it's self-paced learning. Pace – это темп. Self-paced – это в собственном темпе. Обучение в собственном темпе, в собственном ритме. Self-paced learning. Some synonyms for self-paced learning are autonomous learning, flexible learning, and self-directed learning. Are self-paced learning options available? Do you offer self-paced learning options? Please write down. Self-paced learning. How do you spell self-paced? It's s-e-l-f--p-a-c-e-d. Self-paced.
