 Установленные обычаи или договоренность.  Синоним к слову традиция. Это существительное.  В контексте письменной речи оно имеет особое значение, как термин.  Это правило оформления эссе, особенности жанра.  Однокоренное прилагательное. Традиционный, общепринятый.  Наречие по традиции, условно, как принято.  А также словосочетание, которое переводится на русский как речевое клише.  Это правило оформления эссе.  Объектив is conventional, which is a synonym for traditional.  The adverb is conventionally. По традиции, как принято.  And finally, a conventional expression. Это речевое клише.  So, once again, a convention is a tradition, a common way of doing something.  Conventions of essay writing or other forms of writing and genres of writing.  These conventions refer to standard rules and practices for writing in different genres.  The adjective conventional means traditional and ordinary.  And the expression, a conventional expression, речевое клише,  this is a fixed phrase or a set phrase that is traditionally used in a given context.  The conventions of essay writing include following proper grammar and punctuation,  using a clear structure with introduction, body and conclusion,  and maintaining a formal or neutral style.  You also need to use appropriate academic vocabulary  and make sure that there is a logical flow between your paragraphs.  Learners and candidates who take exams must use conventional phrasing and transitions,  such as furthermore, in conclusion, according to the research,  to organize their ideas and communicate effectively.  In academic writing, the essay has a very kind of rigid structure, especially for the paragraphs.  This structure may be different from other types of essays,  such as personal essays or creative essays.  So, you need to follow, you need to know the conventions of essay writing.  In academic writing, which is a style on its own,  academic writing is like a special style of writing.  So, in your work, in your essay, you need to demonstrate your knowledge of these conventions.  Please write down the conventions of essay writing.  How do you spell conventions?  It's C-O-N-V-E-N-T-I-O-N-S.  The conventions of essay writing.  And please write down another expression.  A conventional expression.  How do you spell conventional?  It's C-O-N-V-E-N-T-I-O-N-A-L.  Conventional.  And how do you spell expression?  The spelling is E-X-P-R-E-S-S-I-O-N.  A conventional expression.  Write down the translation.  Речевое клише.  2. Вводный абзац ведения.  The introductory paragraph.  Please repeat.  Introductory.  The introductory paragraph.  Note that the article THE is pronounced as THE before vowels.  Передгласные произносятся как THE.  The introductory paragraph.  Or, simply, the introduction.  The introductory paragraph is the opening paragraph of your essay.  In other words, the introduction, the first paragraph of the essay.  A conventional introductory paragraph in an academic essay introduces the main topic,  gives additional information to explain why this topic is relevant and what the purpose of the essay is.  Finally, the introductory paragraph should end with a clear statement at the end,  outlining the aim and structure of the essay.  The introductory paragraph of a conventional academic essay has three parts.  The hook, followed by background information,  and it ends with the thesis statement, which is the last sentence of the introductory paragraph.  In task number 38 on EG, which is the essay writing task,  the hook is optional.  But you must give background information and a clear thesis.  Please write down the introductory paragraph.  How do you spell introductory?  It's I-N-T-R-O-D-U-C-T-O-R-Y.  And how do you spell paragraph?  It's P-A-R-A-G-R-A-P-H.  The introductory paragraph.  Write down the translation.  Вводный абзац.  Three.  Первое предложение в сочинении, которое знакомит читателей с темой сочинения.  Дословно, крючок.  Listen and repeat.  The hook. Hook.  Note the pronunciation of the short O sound.  So it's not U. There's no U in English.  The short O sound is a sound that's between the Russian O and U.  So if you go gradually from O to U, but stop in the middle,  you get the right sound, O.  Also, make sure that you're not putting too much emphasis on the articulation of the initial H sound.  So it's not H.  In English, it's just an exhale.  Такой легкий выдох.  Hook. The hook.  The hook.  The hook is the first sentence of the essay, which introduces the main topic.  The hook can also be two sentences in an introductory paragraph.  So one or two sentences.  It makes the reader interested in reading the essay,  but at the very least, it introduces the topic of your essay.  So essay writers use different types of hooks.  A good strategy to use for the hook is to say that your topic is important in some way  or that it is highly relevant today.  You can use something very simple like  knowing a foreign language is very important for international communication.  So this is a simple idea, which introduces the topic of learning foreign languages.  And we're just stating the fact that it's important in our lives today for communication.  It's a simple idea expressed using very simple, straightforward language,  which is absolutely fine.  But you can also paraphrase the same idea to make it sound more eloquent,  and you can come up with something like  international communication is an integral part of modern life,  making foreign language mastery a top priority for many.  So we're using fancy language, but the idea is the same,  that it's important nowadays.  Another strategy is to say that some aspect of your topic is challenging.  So it's difficult, which is why it's important to learn more about it.  And finally, you can always say that there are several different aspects to this topic,  which need to be further examined.  So for example, learning foreign languages has many advantages or many benefits.  So we know that this essay is going to be devoted to the benefits of learning foreign languages.  Another popular strategy in essay writing is to use a thought-provoking question.  These questions are also called rhetorical questions.  Be careful. Do not use rhetorical questions on YIGA.  These questions are considered to be a stylistic error.  It's a violation of the neutral style.  And these types of questions are more appropriate in persuasive writing  and in genres of the journalistic style.  So avoid using rhetorical questions.  I'll read a part of the official document.  Please write down the hook.  How do you spell hook?  It's spelled as H-O-O-K.  And write the definition for the hook.  It's H-O-O-K.  It's spelled as H-O-O-K.  And write the definition for the hook.  It's the first sentence of an essay which introduces the main topic.  Or in other words, which gives the main topic of the essay.  Once again, the hook is the first sentence of an essay  which gives or which introduces the main topic.
 4. Часть ведения, в которой описывается ситуация или условие.  Listen and repeat.  Background information.  Background information is the part of the introductory paragraph,  which gives readers important information.  In our case, it's information about the project and the data for the project.  Listen very carefully. This is super important.  Background information is information on the topic that sets up the reader for the thesis statement.  It explains the topic in a way that makes the thesis statement seem logical.  Some types of background information for various types of essays are  a general explanation of the topic, historical information on the topic,  a personal story that relates to the topic, or relevant data and statistics.  Speaking of the essay writing task, which is task 38 on EGAM,  specifically, your background information needs to cover the facts,  which are given to you in the essay prompt.  That is in the task itself.  The fact that you're working on a project.  You need to say this in the introduction.  So, that you're working on a project and the subject of your project.  The fact that you have found some relevant data on the subject.  To be specific, you have found the results of a relevant survey  in the form of a table or a pie chart.  As of now, there are only two forms of data presentation available in task 38 on EGAM.  So, either you'll get a table or a pie chart.  There are two task variants, so one with a table and one with a pie chart,  and you can choose the one that you would like to write on.  When giving background information, you need to specify which form is given to you.  Whether the data you have is in the form of a table or whether it's in the form of a pie chart.  It's important, it's crucial that you do this in the introductory paragraph,  so as to avoid forward reference errors.  Further on in the text, we'll talk more about these types of errors.  So, that's when you start talking about information in the pie chart  without having mentioned first that you have a pie chart  or that your data is given in the form of a pie chart, for example.  So, in task 38, a specific communication situation and a specific topic of the project are proposed.  Statistical data are provided, as well as the results of a sociological survey on a specific topic in the specified country.  Thus, all listed meaningful elements should be mentioned in the introduction.  If the exam participant does not mention the project at all,  then aspect 1 on solving the communication task is not fulfilled.  The topic of the project or its purpose should be mentioned in the introduction.  A paraphrase of the topic is not required,  that is, you can use the wording that is given to you in the task.  It is also important that the author correctly names the format of the statistics provided in the task.  If the author uses the word table instead of pie chart or vice versa,  it is a factual error.  Also, an option with an oblique line is not accepted,  table with an oblique line pie chart.  This is a logical error, that is, you have either one or the other.  And it is important to understand that aspect 1 on solving the communication task  is not fulfilled or inaccurate,  if the exam participant does not mention the survey of public opinion as a source of statistical data.  If he claims that he conducted a survey or collected information on the conditions of the task,  you did not conduct a survey, but you have already found the results of the survey.  If you write that you made a table and a diagram,  this is also an error.  And do not mention or distort the details of the survey,  for example, without indicating the country or the audience.  That is, where was the survey conducted, who participated in the survey.  NEG is always the residents of the city of Zetland.  But the participants in the survey can be either residents, all residents of the city of Zetland,  people in general, Zetland citizens, or students, or teenagers.  It is also necessary to remember that you work independently on the project.  This is not a collective project, so use the pronouns я, а не мы.  ...of the introductory paragraph,  which gives readers important information about the project and the data.  Once again.  It's the part of the introductory paragraph,  which gives readers important information about the project and the data.  The aim of my project is...  Once again.  The aim...  Note the pronunciation of the article the.  It's the before vowels.  The aim...  The aim of...  Pronounce the first three words as one.  Use connected speech.  The aim of...  Note the pronunciation of of.  The letter f in this word is always pronounced as a voiced в.  The aim of...  The aim of...  The aim of...  The aim of my project is...  In other words, the purpose of the project I'm currently working on.  This is a good way to start your sentence,  giving background information on the Ege essay writing task.  There are other ways of expressing the idea that you're working on a project  and saying what the aim is.  But it's a good idea to use the most concise forms  because there's a very strict limit on the number of words that you can write in your essay.  And the problem that most high-level speakers run into  is that they end up writing too many words in their essay  and lose points for violating the word limit.  Remember, the word limit range is 200-250 words,  give or take 10% of that,  which means the absolute minimum is 180 words.  So it's 10% of 200, that's 20,  minus 20, 180.  And the absolute maximum is 275 words,  so 10% of 250, that's 25.  So 250 plus 25 is 275.  That's the absolute maximum.  Do not use contractions such as I'm,  like I'm working on a project.  Contracted verb forms, I'm, he's, it's,  that's considered to be a stylistic error.  You must write out the full form.  So I am, not I'm.  He is, not he's.  It's, it is, not it's.  And cannot as one word, not can't.  Use cannot is spelled as C-A-N-N-O-T, cannot.  So, for example, the aim of my project  is to find out what secondary benefits  of learning foreign languages  Zetland students consider to be the most important.  Please write down the expression  the aim of my project is.  How do you spell aim?  It's A-I-M.  Note that it translates as цель.  The aim of my project is.  6. Выяснить, какие виды.  Is to find out what types of.  Once again, it's is to find out  what types of.  Is, we start with is because people forget  to use is.  The aim of my project is to find out.  In other words, it is to identify  the types of whatever.  The types of sports that are popular among Zetlanders  or the types of benefits,  language learning benefits that Zetland  teenagers consider to be the most important.  In the writing task on YGE,  there are always five aspects  or five types of something,  whether it's different types of sport activities  or different ways to celebrate your birthday.  Or in our case, it's different types of  language learning benefits.  In the background section,  you do not need to paraphrase anything.  You can just use the wording  given to you in the task.  So if you look at the task,  it says, imagine that you are doing a project  on foreign language acquisition.  What secondary benefits of learning foreign languages  Zetland teenagers consider to be the most important.  So you just use this phrasing.  The aim of my project is to find out  what secondary benefits of learning foreign languages  Zetland teenagers consider to be the most important.  This is absolutely fine.  You do not need to paraphrase.  Please write down  is to find out  what  and in parentheses  types of  what benefits  to find out what benefits  but very often you can use types of  is to find out  what types of  in parentheses
 Я нашёл некоторые данные по этому вопросу или по данной теме.  This wording emphasizes the fact that you did not conduct the survey, but found the results of a survey which was taken by someone else.  So, as mentioned earlier, you need to indicate that you have found the data,  which is why it is not recommended to use words like collected or gathered, because these words can be misleading, they're ambiguous,  they make readers think that you have actually done the survey and you collected or gathered the data yourself.  In this context, to gather data or to collect data would likely to imply that you've done the survey yourself.  So, do not use collected or gathered data.  Found, the word that's used, that's given to you in the task, is the safest word to use in this case.  Please write down  I have found some data on the subject.  Once again, please use the present perfect, so I have found.  Do not use contractions, so do not write I've found, that's a stylistic error.  Do not write I've, write I have found, full form.  Eight.  The results of a relevant survey.  Once again, the results of a relevant survey.  So, the results of a relevant survey are the information or data that researchers collected by asking people questions about a specific topic.  These results show what people think, feel or do based on their answers.  Please use the word survey, which is given in the task.  Do not use poll or polls.  This was a hotly debated word in the past years, and so they changed it to survey.  Polls is also ambiguous.  It may mean different things.  Use survey, which is unambiguous.  I have found some data on the subject.  The results of a relevant survey in the form of a table.  Please write down the results of a relevant survey.  How do you spell survey?  It's S-U-R-V-E-Y.  Survey.  Nine.  В виде таблицы или круговой диаграммы.  In the form of a table or pie chart.  On the exam, you choose one or the other.  So, you write either in the form of a table or you write in the form of a pie chart, whichever is given to you in the task.  So, in terms of pronunciation, use connected speech.  Form of.  In the form of.  In the form of a table.  In the form of a pie chart.  So, in the form of a table means that the data are arranged in rows and columns.  And in the form of a pie chart means that the data are arranged as a circular graph divided into parts which show percentages.  Once again, the sentence should go as follows.  I have found some data on the subject.  The results of a relevant survey in the form of a table.  Yes, the introductory paragraph is very formulaic.  So, there's not a lot of freedom for you to express your own thoughts and ideas.  But on the other hand, it's easy to learn.  Because most of the expressions are given to you in the prompt for the task itself.  Please write down the whole sentence.  In the form of a pie chart.  Once again, it's I have found some data on the subject.  The results of a relevant survey in the form of a table.  In the parentheses.  A pie chart.  The last sentence in the introductory paragraph describes the main task of the work, the so-called thesis statement.  The thesis statement is the last sentence of the introductory paragraph, which tells readers what the essay is about.  The thesis statement tells the reader what ideas will be developed in the body of the essay.  The thesis statement has two parts.  A topic and a point of view.  The point of view often states the individual ideas or points that the writer will develop in the essay.  So, here's an example of a thesis statement on the benefits of language learning.  For example.  The topic is learning foreign languages or the benefits of learning foreign languages.  And the point of view covers three points or three ideas.  Namely, traveling.  It enhances your travel experiences.  The second point or idea is learning about different cultures.  That's cultural awareness.  And the third point or idea is your studies.  How well you study.  The fact that it makes you a better learner.  It improves your cognitive abilities.  So, it helps you to perform better in various academic subjects.  Improving your academic performance across the board.  This means that you will have three body paragraphs in your essay.  Each body paragraph will develop one of these ideas.  So, your first body paragraph will focus on traveling.  You'll give examples how learning foreign languages improves your interactions when traveling.  Your second body paragraph will cover cultural awareness.  And the fact that you learn about cultures when you learn a foreign language.  And the third body paragraph will focus on how learning foreign languages helps you do well in school and on exams.  Because it improves your cognitive abilities.  Thus, it enhances your academic performance.  Please write down the thesis statement.  How do you spell thesis?  It's spelled as T-H-E-S-I-S.  Thesis.  The thesis statement.  Please write down the definition for the thesis statement.  It's the last sentence of the introductory paragraph which tells readers what the essay is about.  Once again. It's the last sentence of the introductory paragraph which tells readers what the essay is about.
 Eleven. В данной работе я исследую.  In this essay, I will explore.  Be careful not to write I'll. This is a stylistic error. Do not use contractions.  It's not I'll, but I will.  In this essay, I will explore.  Another phrasing that you can use is  This essay examines certain topics, certain ideas.  So this is the beginning of the thesis statement,  which is the last sentence of your introductory paragraph.  You do not need to write anything for number 11.  We will write down the whole thesis statement  or an example of the thesis statement once we cover all parts of it.  So, number 12.  Я исследую данные, которые я нашёл.  Я буду исследовать данные, которые я нашёл.  I will explore the data that I have found.  Once again, it's I will explore the data that I have found.  Remember not to use contractions.  So, do not write I'll. Write I will.  Do not write I've. Write I have found.  Another way of phrasing this is to say that  This essay examines the said data.  Said S-A-I-D means the data that was mentioned earlier.  So, the word explore is very broad  and it may cover the first three points or ideas of your essay,  which correspond to the three body paragraphs.  Namely, describing facts,  which is when you report two or three facts.  That's your first paragraph, your first body paragraph.  Making a comparison or analyzing the data that you have.  That's your second body paragraph.  And then outlining a specific problem and offering a solution.  That's your third body paragraph.  So, all of these three points,  describing and analyzing data,  and then outlining a problem that's connected to the data.  And the last point with your opinion on a particular subject  is expressed in the concluding paragraph.  So, the full form thesis statement would read as follows.  In this essay, I will describe and analyze the data that I have found.  I will outline a problem that can arise with learning a foreign language  and I will offer a solution to this problem.  And I will give my opinion  on the value of being able to read text in the original.  You can see that this is extremely wordy, but very specific.  So, this would be a very long thesis statement  because there are very specific things that we need to talk about in each paragraph.  Which is why we can use a short form of the thesis statement.  And to make it more concise, to make it shorter,  we can use the word explore as an umbrella term,  which covers the first three points,  namely reporting facts from the survey results,  making a comparison, and outlining a problem  in connection to the theme of the survey.  So, here's the formula for the thesis statement that we end up with.  In this essay, I will explore the data I have found  and I will give my opinion on  and then write out the specific topic that you need to give your opinion on  that you write it out from the task.  You do not need to write anything for number 12.  Let's move on to number 13.  13, и выскажу свое мнение о...  например, о пользе чтения текстов в оригинале.  Эта часть сформулирована в условии задания.  And I will give my opinion on  the value of being able to read texts in the original.  Once again, please write out I will.  Do not use I'll.  Some people try to make it shorter by not writing I will at all  and just saying I and give my opinion.  But it is acceptable.  So, the full form and I will give is a little bit more formal,  makes your language look and sound more formal.  And it's also this full form I will give my opinion  is used in long sentences for clarity.  So, another way of expressing this idea,  you can say something like I will express my view on  or if you start out your thesis with this essay examines the data  and then you can follow it up by saying the essay presents the author's view on.  So, your thesis would read as follows.  This essay examines the said data and presents the author's view on  the value of being able to read texts in the original.  Avoid writing I will give my opinion on the subject of the project.  The subject is very broad.  In the outline, in the task,  you're asked to give your opinion on something very specific.  And what often ends up happening is that people forget  that they are not just to express their opinion in general,  like on the benefits of learning a foreign language,  but there's something very specific.  You need to read it carefully.  In our case, the prompt asks you to give your opinion  on reading texts in the original,  not on language learning benefits in general.  So, if you write this as part of your thesis in the beginning,  that will help you remember to give your opinion on this specific topic,  not just on the subject in general.  Now, let's write down the whole thesis statement.  Or one of the acceptable variants of it.  So, just listen to the whole sentence first.  In this essay, I will explore the data that I have found,  and I will give my opinion on the value of being able to read texts in the original.  Okay, so now let's take it in parts.  Please write down the following.  In this essay, I will explore the data that I have found,  and I will give my opinion on  the value, how do you spell value, it's V-A-L-U-E,  of being able to read texts in the original.  Close the parentheses and put a period at the end, точка в конце.  Let's recap.  In this essay, I will explore the data that I have found,  and I will give my opinion on the value of being able to read texts in the original.  Period or full stop.  You can make it slightly shorter by saying,  in this essay, I will explore the data,  and give my opinion on the value of being able to read texts in the original.  So, the reason that I'm giving you the longer version is because  it's one of the conventions in academic writing  to use more words for precision when necessary.  So, on the one hand, you want to make your writing concise.  You don't want to use, to be too wordy.  But on the other hand, when your sentence is long,  and there's a chance of, you know, there's a chance of some confusion happening,  they like to repeat words for clarity.  But on Yige, it's also acceptable to use the shorter version.
 14. Абзац основной части. A body paragraph. A body paragraph is a  paragraph which presents one of the main points of an essay. Each body  paragraph logically and thoroughly explains, describes, or argues one aspect  of the thesis statement. The prompt in the essay writing task on EGEE provides  an outline for a five-paragraph essay. This outline includes an introductory  paragraph, three body paragraphs, and a concluding paragraph. Each paragraph in  the essay should fully develop each aspect in the outline. Please write down  a body paragraph. Note that paragraph is spelt with a PH at the end. A body  paragraph, write down the translation. Абзац основной части. 15. Первое предложение  абзаца основной части, в котором формулируется тема абзаца, основная  мысль, соответствующая одному из аспектов тезисного предложения вводным  абзаце, и плана сочнения. The topic sentence. The topic sentence is the  first sentence in a body paragraph which states one aspect of the thesis from the  introduction. This aspect is further developed in the supporting sentences of  the paragraph. So here's an example of the topic sentence for the first body  paragraph. The table with the survey results shows five additional reasons  for learning foreign languages. So this sentence signals that the paragraph will  focus on the data and will describe the data in the chart and report in the  table and report some facts. Here's another topic sentence. Although foreign  language acquisition yields a variety of benefits, the process may prove to be  challenging, especially when attempting to master a foreign language  independently. So this fancy sentence basically says that learning a foreign  language is challenging when you try to do it on your own. So this sentence  signals to the reader that the paragraph will discuss some challenges or problems  that are connected to language learning when you learn a language... when you try to do  it on your own. Please write down the topic sentence. Write down the definition.  The first sentence in a body paragraph which tells readers what this paragraph  is about. Once again, the topic sentence is the first sentence in a body paragraph  which tells readers what the paragraph is about.  16. Предложения, которые объясняют, раскрывают и поддерживают главную мысль,  приводят пример и подробности доказательства.  Supporting sentences. Supporting sentences give specific information about the main  idea. Details, explanations, examples, and facts. Usually there are two or three  supporting sentences and they present one or two arguments or give one or two  examples to illustrate your main idea. Please write down supporting sentences.  How do you spell supporting? It's s-u-p-p-o-r-t-i-n-g. And write down the  definition. Supporting sentences give specific information about the main idea  of the body paragraph. Once again, supporting sentences give specific  information about the main idea of the body paragraph.  18. Логическая ошибка, дословно ошибка, опережающий ссылки.  Forward reference error. Forward reference error is a term borrowed from  computer programming. It points readers to information not yet presented, so  it's like jumping ahead. It happens when the author refers to a source, data, or  concept before it has been introduced or properly explained in the text. So it's  incomplete data introduction. The target reader is not fully informed.  The example of that would be if you forget to talk about the fact that you have  found some data in the form of a pie chart or in the form of a table chart, and  then in your first body paragraph all of a sudden you write. The pie chart with  the results of the survey shows it's like what pie chart? Was there a pie  chart? You know, the reader, it makes the reader confused. The information is  treated as already known or previously mentioned when in fact it is not.  Remember that your target reader does not have the task, so they don't know  that you're working on a project. They don't know that you found some data and  that it's in the form of a survey or they don't see the pie chart. You can't  say, you know, the pie chart below or the table below attached. It's not a part of  your text. You may not draw it or copy it on your paper. That's not acceptable  on exams. So you need to inform your reader. You need to say that in the  opening paragraph that you have found some data, that it's in the form of a pie  chart or a table chart, and then you can later on discuss this table chart  because the reader already knows that you have this information and that you  will be looking at the data in this pie chart. Please write down forward  reference error. How do you spell forward? It's F-O-R-W-A-R-D. Forward. Reference.  Error. Error with a double R. All right, we've skipped number 17, so now let's go  back to number 17.  В таблице или же в круговой диаграмме отражены 5 дополнительных причин для изучения иностранных языков, которые являются важными, по мнению зетланских подростков.  The table or the pie chart with the results of the survey shows five in parentheses  additional reasons for learning foreign languages that Zetland teenagers  consider to be important. Once again, the table with the survey results or the  table with the results of the survey shows S at the end because the table  shows five additional reasons for learning foreign languages that Zetland  teenagers consider to be important. Or the pie chart with the survey results,  the pie chart with the results of the survey shows five additional reasons  for learning foreign languages that Zetland teenagers consider to be  important. Another way of phrasing this is to say that the table or the pie  chart with the survey results highlights five secondary benefits of learning  foreign languages that Zetland teenagers find valuable. Remember to adhere to use  neutral or formal style. Do not address your readers directly. Also do not use  the contractions, the contracted forms of expressions such as let's. Let us is  acceptable, but my suggestion is avoid using let us altogether. It's not a good  idea to address the reader in this type of essay. So this is your topic sentence  for your first body paragraph. It tells readers that this paragraph will  discuss or will describe the data presented in the pie chart or in the  table. And also note that it's important to say who took part in the survey. So  you mention the fact that it's that it's Zetland teenagers, the reasons that  Zetland teenagers consider to be important. Please write down this  sentence. The table, write pie chart in the parentheses, with the  survey results, shows, don't forget the S at the end, shows five, parentheses,  additional reasons for learning foreign languages that Zetland  teenagers consider to be important. Once again, the table, pie chart in  parentheses, with the survey results, shows five additional reasons for  learning foreign languages that Zetland teenagers consider to be important. 19.  Согласно данным. According to the data. According to the data, another way  of phrasing this is to say based on the data. So after your topic sentence, the  table with the survey results shows five additional reasons for learning  foreign languages that Zetland teenagers consider to be important. And then you  report facts, and you start with according to the data, and give some  facts. For example, according to the data, 49% of the respondents believe that  showing appreciation for other cultures is the most important secondary benefit  of learning foreign languages. Or, according to the data, the top two  reasons for the highest number of the responses are to show appreciation for  other cultures at 49% and to develop cognitive abilities at 31%. Please write  down according to the data. How do you spell according? It's A-double-C-O-R-D-I-N-G.  According to the data, comma, запятая. Write down the translation. Согласно  данным. All right, and last but not least for this assignment, number 20. The  verb. Глагол отвечать. Существительное. Респондент. Существительное. Ответ. Реакция.  Прилагательное. Отзывчивый. Реагирующий. А также однокоренное прилагательное.  Ответственный. Наречие. Ответственно. И существительное. Ответственность. Все  однокоренные слова. So, the verb is to respond. Отвечать. To respond. Note the  pronunciation of letter E. It's respond. The noun is respondent. So, not re, but re.  Respondent. Be careful, not a responder. Responder имеет совершенно  другое значение и совершенно неуместно в нашем контексте. Респондент так и  будет. Respondent. The noun. Ответ. Реакция. Is a response. A response. The adjective is  responsive. Отзывчивый. Responsive. Another adjective is responsible.  Ответственный. Responsible. The opposite of responsible is irresponsible. The adverb  is responsibly. To do something responsibly. And the noun is responsibility. Ответственность.  It can be either countable or uncountable. Responsibility. So, to respond means to give  an answer or reaction to a question or situation. A response is an answer or reaction to question  or event. A respondent is a person who answers questions in a survey or study. Once again,  it's respondent and not responder. Responsive means quick to react or to respond to something.  Responsible is someone who is reliable, trustworthy. When a person does what he or  she said she would do and you can count on that person. And finally, responsibility is something  you have to do because other people count on you to perform this duty. According to the data,  the top two reasons with the highest number of responses are to show appreciation for other  cultures at 49% and to develop cognitive abilities at 31%. According to the data,  49% of the respondents believe that showing appreciation for other cultures is the most  important secondary benefit of learning foreign languages. Please write down two words. The first  one is a respondent. How do you spell respondent? It's R-E-S-P-O-N-D-E-N-T. Respondent. And write  down the translation. Респондент участника опроса. And the second word is a response. How  do you spell that? It's R-E-S-P-O-N-S-E. A response. Write down the meaning. A response is an answer to a question.
