 1. Согласный звук. A consonant. A consonant is a speech sound that cannot be sung. In other words, you can't sing this sound. It's a speech sound that's not a vowel. Vowel – гласный звук. Consonants are pronounced by stopping the air from flowing easily through the mouth, especially by closing the lips or touching the teeth with a tongue. The interdentals in English are consonant sounds. Please write down the following words with the interdental consonants. The first expression is I think that. Once again, I think that. And the second word is something. Take a pencil or a marker and highlight or circle the combination of letters TH. So TH in think, TH in that, and TH in something. On the audio recordings, please practice reading these words with three different sounds. First, substitute TH with a s sound. I think that something. Next, substitute it with a f sound. I think that something. And then finally pronounce it with the correct interdental sound. I think that and something. Also, please write down the word consonant. The spelling is c-o-n-s-o-n-a-n-t. And write the translation – согласный. A consonant – согласный. And write down the word vowel. How do you spell that? It's v-o-w-e-l. Vowel. Write the translation – гласный. Two. Пологласный звук. A semi vowel. A semi vowel is a sound which is similar to a vowel, but functions as a consonant. A synonym for a semi vowel is a semi consonant. The words yes and well in English start with semi vowels. The semi vowel i and the semi vowel w. The sound w is a semi vowel that is produced with both lips. Please write down the following words which start with a semi vowel w. Will. W-i-l-l. Would. The spelling is w-o-u-l-d. With. W-i-t-h. As. Well. As. As well as. And very well. Get a pencil or a marker and circle or highlight the w letter in each word. W-will. W-would. W-with. W-well. And w-well again. When you read these words out on your recording, focus on pronouncing the semi vowel w using just your lips. Your teeth should not be engaged, so as soon as your upper teeth touch the bottom lip, you get a w sound that you need in the word very. Listen and repeat. W-will. W-would. W-with. The. Remember the introdental the. As. Well. As. As well as. Bite your bottom lip. W-very. W-well. Very. Well.
 Двугласный звук – это сочетание двухгласных звуков, произносимых слитно один за другим, как один звук. Возвращайте внимание, что верхние зубы тратят на низкий лист, но потом нужно перейти к звуку, которое называется «ф». Двугласный звук – это сочетание двухгласных звуков, произносимых слитно один за другим, как один звук. Слитная зубка тратит на низкий лист, а вверху – на низкий лист. Выдох – через нос. Двугласный звук – это сочетание двухгласных звуков, произносимых слитно один за другим, как один звук. Слитная зубка тратит на низкий лист, а вверху – на низкий лист. Возвращайте внимание на звук сочетания. Двугласный звук – это сочетание двухгласных звуков, произносимых слитно один за другим, как один звук. В одном слоге два гласных звука произносятся как одно целое. Двугласный звук – это сочетание двухгласных звуков, произносимых слитно один за другим, как один звук. Слитная зубка тратит на низкий лист, а вверху – на низкий лист. Двугласный звук – это сочетание двухгласных звуков, произносимых слитно один за другим, как один звук. Слитная зубка тратит на низкий лист, а вверху – на низкий лист. Двугласный звук – это сочетание двухгласных звуков, произносимых слитно один за другим, как один звук. Двухгласный звук – это сочетание двухгласных слитно один за другим, как один звук. Двухгласный звук – это сочетание двухгласных слитно один за другим, как один звук. И писите слово «Although». Писание это «A-L-T-H-O-U-G-H». «Although» – это стресс на втором слове. «Although» – это стресс на втором слове. Слышите и повторите. Трифтонг – это сложный классный, состоящий из трех элементов, образующих один слог. Слышите? Трифтонг. Вcombination of letters pH is pronounced as the labiodental «f» sound, which means your upper teeth are touching the lower lip, but then you need to make a transition to the intrudental «f». And at the end the NG are pronounced as the nasal «m». звук с задней частью твоего тона, который трогает мягкий палец, и кукурный ток вверху. Вдохни и вздохни через нос. Тонг. Тонг. Слышите и повторяйте. Тонг. В фокусе на интруденте. Тонг. Трифтонг. Трифтонг – это комбинация трех звуков в том же слове. Есть пять трифтонгов в английском. Ая, Ауа, Эя, Оя и Оа. Ая – inspir, Ауа – flower, Вау, Эя – игрок, Оя – радость, Оа – лов. Пишите эти два слова с трифтонговыми звуками. Первое слово – Inspiring. Как это называется? Inspiring – I-N-S-P-I-R-I-N-G. Ая – Inspiring. Inspiring – вдохновляющий. Теперь пишите слово Vowel. Это звено V-O-W-E-L. Vowel. Ауа. Vowel. И это слово переводится как… классный. Пять. Вягкая нёба. Палат. Слышите и повторяйте. Палат. Палат. Палат – это мягкая нёба, вверху, внутри муку. Ещё одно слово для мягкой нёбы – вилом. С левого кукура, если вы наносите вверху, а затем вытягиваете кукурку вверху, а затем вверху вы чувствуете левые кукуры, а затем, если вы продолжите вращение кукура, вы чувствуете сердце, как в верхней части муку. А затем, если вы двигаетесь вверх, вы чувствуете, что это становится мягким. Это мягкий палат. Возвращение вилор-концидента, который обычно представляется в писании комбинацией н и г, сгибает сзади кукура на мягком палате. Спинка языка касается мягкого нёба. Звук как бы в горлышке, как будто бы. Возвращение и вздохнение через нос. Кукура кукура находится на нижней части. Кончик языка у нижних зубов. Н Пожалуйста, писите следующие слова с звуком N. Первое слово «think» Следующее слово «thanks» «thanks» Следующее слово «language» И, наконец, «being able to» Как это звать «being»? «Being» И следующие слова «able» «think» «thanks» «language» «being able to» Возвращение вилор-концидента, и, пожалуйста, обрежьте или подключите звук «n». Итак, это слово N в «think», комбинация N и K дает звук «nk». Неразборчивое слово «thanks» Обратите внимание, что мы не говорим «then», но мы пронося звук «nk». «Thang» «Thang» «k» – «soft» «k's» – «thing» «k's» – «thing» «k's» – «thing» «k's» – «thing» «k's» – «thing» «k's» Следующий слово «ng» комбинация N в «language» «language» «language» И комбинация N в «being» «being» «being» Обратите внимание на цвет, чтобы подключить звук «th» в «think» и «thanks» Слова «th» и «thanks» Обратите внимание на эти звуки, как вы их читаете на вашем видео. Слышите и повторяйте. «th-thing-k» «th-thing-k's» «language» «being» «being able to» «being able to»
 Six, Oriental languages. Oriental languages are a group of languages spoken in Asia, especially in East and Southeast Asia, including Chinese, Japanese, Korean, etc. Many people nowadays are interested in being able to speak Oriental languages. Many students would like to be able to study Oriental languages like Chinese and Japanese at university. Oriental languages often have different alphabets and writing systems. I think that Oriental languages, which have symbols instead of words, are extremely hard to learn for people who are more used to Roman letters. Please write down the phrase Oriental languages. How do you spell Oriental? It's O-R-I-E-N-T-A-L. Oriental languages. Seven, Chinese hieroglyphs. Listen and repeat. Chinese characters. Once again, Chinese characters. Chinese characters are logographs, which are special symbols that are used in the Chinese writing system. Note that the word hieroglyphs is usually used to talk about ancient writing systems, mainly the one used in ancient Egypt and also the writing system of the ancient Maya. For the symbols used in modern Chinese languages, use the word characters. So Chinese characters or Han characters. Please write down Chinese characters. How do you spell that? It's capital C-H-I-N-E-S-E. And characters C-H-A-R-A-C-T-E-R-S. Remember to always capitalize words that have to do with country names. So the names of countries are always capitalized. Nationalities are capitalized and languages are also always capitalized. And the adjective that comes from a word denoting a country should always be capitalized. So Chinese is spelled with a capital C. Eight. Listen and repeat. Prior. Prior is an adjective. It translates into Russian as предварительный. The preposition is prior to. Prior to translates into Russian as перед, до, раньше. The noun is priority. It translates into Russian as приоритет. And the verb, глагол, is to prioritize. To prioritize translates into Russian as ставить в приоритет. Prior means previous or earlier in time. It's an adjective. The preposition prior to means before a particular time or event. The noun priority is something very important that needs attention first. And the verb to prioritize means to arrange things so that the most important things are done first. Here's an example sentence from the essay. The number of students who feel that reflecting on one's own cultural identity is the most valuable secondary benefit of learning foreign languages is significantly smaller than the number of those who prioritize showing appreciation for other cultures at 4% and 49% respectively. Please write down the following. Write down prior to the preposition. How do you spell prior to? The spelling is P-R-I-O-R and the second word is to-T-O. Write the translation. Перед или до. And write down the verb to prioritize. How do you spell prioritize? The spelling is P-R-I-O-R-I-T-I-Z-E. Also note the British spelling. It's spelled with an S at the end in British English. So prioritize T-I-S-E and the American spelling is Z-E at the end. And write the translation. It translates as ставить в приоритет.
 9. Обзацы основной части Listen and repeat. The body paragraphs The body paragraphs present the main points of an essay, and each one explains and argues one aspect of the thesis statement. The first and second body paragraphs of the response to the essay prompt in Task 38 on Yigge describe and analyze the survey data. The third body paragraph outlines a possible problem connected to the subject and offers a solution to this problem. Please write down the body paragraphs and write the definition. The body paragraphs present the main points of an essay. Once again, the body paragraphs present the main points of an essay. 10. Тематическое предложение Listen and repeat. The topic sentence The topic sentence states one aspect of the thesis, telling readers what the paragraph is about. The topic sentence for the first body paragraph of the essay refers readers to the information presented in the table or pie chart. It starts with a description of the table or pie chart. Here is one example of the beginning of the topic sentence for the first body paragraph. The table or pie chart with the survey results shows five types of something or five ways of doing something. The topic sentence for the second body paragraph starts with analyzing the data, because comparing pieces of data is in fact a type of analysis. Another way to start this paragraph is to say the survey data revealed, signaling to the reader that this paragraph will analyze the survey data. Please write down the topic sentence The definition states one aspect of the thesis, which tells readers what the paragraph is about. Once again, the topic sentence states one aspect of the thesis, telling readers what the paragraph is about. Eleven The supporting statement or sentence Listen and repeat The supporting sentences The supporting sentences give specific information about the main idea, presenting details, examples, explanations, facts and arguments. Please write down the supporting sentences. How do you spell supporting? It's S-U-double-P-O-R-T-I-N-G Once again, the supporting sentences give specific information about the main idea. Please write down the definition as well. They give specific information about the main idea. Twelve The table with the survey results are presented. Just listen first. The table or the pie chart with the results of the survey shows five different types of something or ways of something. The table or the pie chart with the results of the survey shows five different types of something or ways of something. In other words, the table or the pie chart with survey data presents figures for five various types of something or ways of something. For example, the table with the survey results shows five additional reasons beyond communication purposes for learning foreign languages. Thirteen Listen and repeat The survey data reveal Note that in English the word data is actually plural, данные, which is why the proper form is reveal and not reveals. However, reveals is also acceptable. So the survey data reveals, but the proper grammar is reveal. Another way to phrase this idea is to say that analyzing the survey data, it becomes evident that. Here are some examples from the essay. Analyzing the data, it becomes evident that the number of responses for the option to show appreciation for other cultures is significantly greater than the number of responses for the option to reflect on one's own cultural identity at 49% and 4% respectively. Or another way to start your second body paragraph is to say the survey data reveal a lack of awareness about using foreign languages as a tool to deepen learners understanding of their own culture and native tongue. Please write down the expression the survey data reveal and how do you spell reveal? It's R-E-V-E-A-L, the survey data reveal. And write down another expression that you can use. Analyzing the survey data, it becomes evident that. Once again, it's analyzing the survey data or simply analyzing the data, it becomes evident that. Also note the difference in spelling between the American and the British versions. For the verb to analyze. So the British variant has an S at the end. Analyze L-Y-S-E, whereas the American variant has a Z or letter Z at the end. L-Y-Z-E. Fourteen. Listen and repeat. A striking difference in figures. Once again, it's a striking difference in figures. And you may add between some of the options or between the groups of respondents. Another way of phrasing this idea is to say that there is a substantial gap in the numbers between some of the options. So a striking difference in figures or a substantial gap in the numbers. The use of the article, the definite article or the indefinite article, a striking difference or the striking difference depends on the context. Here's an example. The striking difference in figures between the options may, in fact, reflect a growing popularity of travel among young people. Please write down the expression. A striking difference in figures. Once again, it's a striking difference in figures. And write down the synonymous expression. A substantial gap in the numbers. How do you spell substantial? It's spelled as S-U-B-S-T-A-N-T-I-A-L. A substantial gap in the numbers between some of the options.
 15. Наречие «процент» дословно переводится как «на сотню». Прилагательное – 10-процентное. Существительное – процент или доля, то есть численный показатель. И существительные – процентные пункты. На сотню. Процентные пункты. Вbedingt Godotov terrorists definitions Hue happening after. А именноExerc dzieci hasta Neele się 210Do Boardingidisard. Система, которые имеют самые большие ответы, это 4% и 31% В конечном смысле, опция на свою культурную идентификацию имеет наиболее редкие ответы, с 4% в целом. 16 Численный показатель Слышите и повторяю. А фигур Фигур для опции Фигур Фигур Фигур это символ для номера или количества, выраженном в номерах. В примере, рация Фигур для опции, а это цель, чтобы понять ментальность людей из других культурных рейтингов, с 6% в целом, в целом. Давайте сняли слова для номеров 15 и 16. Так что, для номера 15 пожалуйста сняйте «персент» как одно слово. Как это звать? Это звание P-E-R-C-E-N-T Percent. Write the translation. Процент. And in parentheses. Скобочках. На сотню. Дословно такой перевод. Next, write down percentage. The spelling is P-E-R-C-E-N-T-A-G-E. And in parentheses. Скобочках. Letter S. Indicating that it does have a plural form. Percentages. Write the translation. Численный показатель выраженный в процентном соотношении. And finally, write down percentage points. Write the definition for percentage points. Они используются для показания разницы между двуми процентами. Почти, опять же, процентные точки используются для показания разницы между двуми процентами. Теперь, писайте слово для номера 16. Фигур. It's spelled as F-I-G-U-R-E and it's pronounced as Figur. Write down the translation. Цифра или численный показатель. A figure. Seventeen. Значительно больше или значительно меньше голосов. Дословно ответов. Listen and repeat. Significantly more responses and significantly fewer responses. Note the use of the word responses. Ответы. Avoid using the word votes on the Yager task. Синонимы для значительно больше ответов. И для меньших ответов можно использовать слово, Несколько меньше ответов. Или, несколько меньше ответов. Also, because a response is a countable noun, we do not use less with responses but use the word fewer. Please, write down the expression significantly more and less. So because a response is a countable noun, we do not use less with responses, but use the word fewer. Please write down the expression significantly more, slash, касая черта, fewer responses. How do you spell fewer? It's F-E-W-E-R. Significantly more responses, significantly fewer responses. Number eighteen. Eighteen. Listen and repeat. The fewest responses. Note the use of the word fewest. Response is a countable noun, so we need to use fewest. Here's a synonymous expression. The greatest number of responses and the smallest number of responses. Examplification. Please write down the following expressions. The most slash fewest responses. So the most responses, the fewest responses. How do you spell fewest? The spelling is F-E-W-E-S-T. Responses is spelled as R-E-S-P-O-N-S-E-S. And write down the synonymous expression, the greatest slash smallest number of responses. Use the words greatest and smallest or greater and smaller with the word number. So the greatest number of responses, the smallest number of responses. You can also use the words figure and percentage interchangeably, but be careful. We don't say that an option has received a figure or a percentage. We just say that an option has a certain figure or percentage. So an option has the greatest percentage or an option has the smallest figure. But with the number of responses, use the verbs has received and has gained in the present perfect. Since we use the present simple tense to describe the survey data in the table or in the pie chart. Thank you for watching.
 19. Существенно, значительно – это наречие, и слово, которое имеет противоположное значение, немного незначительно. Эти слова неоднокоренные, но они связаны по смыслу, так как являются противоположными. Listen and repeat. Substantially. Substantially is an adverb, and it translates into Russian as существенно, значительно. The opposite of substantially is slightly. Slightly is an adverb, and it translates into Russian as немного незначительно. Some good synonyms for substantially are significantly and considerably. A good synonym for slightly is somewhat. Somewhat means only to a small degree or insignificantly. Here are some examples. By contrast, the number of those who consider reflecting on one's own cultural identity to be the most important additional reason to study foreign languages is substantially smaller. This option has received only 4% of the responses. The figure for the option to better understand the mentality of people from other cultural backgrounds is only slightly greater, with 6% of the total number of responses. Please write down the adverb substantially. It's spelled as SUVSTANTIALY and write the translation существенно. Also write down the adverb slightly. The spelling is SLIGHTLY and write the translation немного незначительно. Focus on the introdental the in this. And here's the second expression. The option that has gained. Focus on the introdentals the and that. Note that the article the before a vowel is pronounced as the, the option that has gained. Another way of phrasing this is to say this option has received or the option that has received a certain number of votes. The option that has gained the most responses is to show appreciation for other cultures with 49% of the total. This option has received the greatest number of responses. To reflect on one's cultural identity is the option that has received the fewest responses. At 4%, this option has received significantly fewer responses as compared to the option discussed above. Please write down the expression. The option that has gained. The spelling of gained is GAINED slash received. Note the spelling of the word received. It's RECEIVED. Remember to use the present perfect when using these verbs to describe the data in the chart in the pie chart or the table. So the option that has gained or has received a certain number of votes. Twenty-one. Местоименная конструкция, то есть это фраза, которая замещает ранее упомянутое существительное или его характеристику. First just listen. That of. That of is the singular form and those of is the plural form. Focus on the pronunciation of the voiced introdental the sound in that and those. Also use connected speech to pronounce the two words as one whole word. So that of and the F in the word of is always voiced. It's pronounced as a V sound. That of and those of. These phrases function as pronouns, meaning the one of or the ones of. And they're used as substitutes to replace longer noun phrases for conciseness and clarity. So, for example, instead of repeating the number of responses for the first option is greater than the number of responses for the second option. You can use that of instead of the number of responses. The number of responses for the first option is greater than that of the second option. So, if you can say that the number of responses for the first option is greater than the number of responses for the second option, then the English translation will be a mistake. The number of responses for the first option is greater than the second option is wrong. You need to either repeat it's greater than the number of responses for the second option or you can use that of to substitute for the number of responses. So, once again, the number of responses for the first option is greater than that of the second option. Дословно, чем то же самое для второй опции или для второго варианта. So, the word number is in the singular form, which is why we use that of. If the word was plural such as numbers or responses, then you could substitute it with those of. Please write the two expressions that of in the singular form and those of the plural form and write an example sentence. The number of responses for the first option is greater than that of the second option. 22. Может свидетельствовать о том, что или же возможно отражает тот факт, что The and that may reflect the fact that A synonymous expression is may be explained by the fact that. Here's an example. And here's the same sentence with the other expression. Please write down two expressions. The first is may reflect the fact that. And write down the second expression may be explained by and the fact that in parentheses. Once again, may be explained by the fact that. May reflect the fact that may be explained by the fact that. This expression is useful for commenting on your comparison of pieces of data. 23. Глагол отражать, думать и однокоренные слова. Прилагательное отражающий или задумчивый, прилагательное рефлексивное или рефлекторное, существительное, отражение, размышление. Listen and repeat. To reflect is a verb. It translates into Russian as отражать. Например, отражать в зеркале что-либо. И имеет переносное значение думать. The adjective is reflective and it translates into Russian as отражающий или задумчивый. Something is reflective of something else. And here's another adjective. Reflexive. Reflexive translates into Russian as рефлексивный или рефлекторный. The noun is reflection. Reflection translates into Russian as отражение или размышление. To reflect means to throw back light, heat, sound or an image. And the figurative meaning is to think carefully about something, to reflect on something. The adjective reflective means thinking deeply or carefully about something. The noun reflection is an image or idea thrown back or something showing what is happening. A mirror image. Here's an example. By contrast, only 4% of the survey consider reflecting on one's own cultural identity to be the most important additional reason to study foreign languages. Reflecting on your own cultural identity means thinking carefully and perhaps analyzing your own cultural identity. Another example. The striking gap in numbers may reflect the growing popularity of travel among young people. So in this case it means that it explains a certain phenomenon. Please write down the noun reflection. How do you spell reflection? Reflection is spelled as R-E-F-L-E-C-T-I-O-N. A reflection of something. Write down the translation. Отражение, а также размышление. Note the use of prepositions. Отражение чего-либо. A reflection on the benefits of learning languages. It means that you're thinking carefully about what the benefits are. A reflection on or about learning foreign languages. Let's recap. A reflection of, a reflection in, and a reflection on or about something. This essay is a reflection of her ideas about language learning. В сочинении представлены, отражены ее представления о изучении языков. A reflection in the mirror, отражение в зеркале. And a reflection on the benefits of learning foreign languages. This is a reflection on the benefits of learning foreign languages.
 24. Каждый вид активности или деятельности имеет свои преимущества и недостатки. Just listen first. Each type of activity has its merits and drawbacks. Listen and repeat. Drawbacks. Merits and drawbacks. Has its merits and drawbacks. Type of. Type of activity. Each type of activity has its merits and drawbacks. Another way of phrasing this is to say that both types of activity have their pros and cons, or they have their pluses and minuses. Here are some examples. Each way of studying foreign languages has its merits and drawbacks. Or both ways of learning foreign languages have their pros and cons. They each have their pluses and minuses. Please write down the following expression. Each type of activity has its merits and drawbacks. Once again, each type of activity has its its its without an apostrophe. Has its merits and drawbacks. The spelling of drawbacks is DRAWBACKS. Each type of activity has its merits and drawbacks. 25. What about the positive aspects of group classes? Just listen first. As for the positive aspects of in-person group classes. Listen and repeat. As for. As for the positive aspects of. Focus on the intradental. The positive aspects of. Sub-aspects of in-person group classes. As for the positive aspects of in-person group classes. In other words, talking about the benefits of in-person group classes. Or the advantages of in-person group classes include. As for the positive aspects of in-person group classes. As for the positive aspects of in-person group classes. I'd point out that participating in group activities in a shared physical space. Enhances engagement and motivation. An advantage of in-person group classes is that you do things together with other students in the same room. The special atmosphere and face-to-face communication make learning more motivating and fun. Please write down the expression. As for the positive aspects of. Write the translation. What about the positive aspects? Twenty-six. I'd point out that. Listen and repeat. I'd point out that. Focus on the intradental. That. I'd point out that. When you read out this expression, make sure that you're pronouncing the D clearly. I'd. The contracted words in I'd are I and would. I would point out that. Colloquially, we say I'd point out that. I'd point out that. You can also use synonymous expressions such as I'd say that or I'd note that. I'd note that. Here are some examples. As for the positive aspects of in-person group classes, I'd point out that participating in group activities in a shared physical space enhances engagement and motivation. An advantage of in-person group classes is that you do things together with other students in the same room. Students are able to work together in the same space. The special atmosphere and face-to-face communication make learning more motivating and fun. Twenty-seven. I'd point out that. I'd point out that. Listen and repeat. I'd point out that. Focus on the intradental. That. On the downside. Some synonymous expressions to that include on the negative side or on the flip side. On the downside, online lessons might not be good for our health because you don't move much. On the flip side, you need to have excellent internet connection, which can sometimes be unreliable or unstable. So you have to cancel the lesson. Another possible drawback is that online interaction is subject to periodic, unpredicted disruptions, which may negatively impact the learning process. You might not be able to have regular lessons if your internet connection isn't very stable. Twenty-eight. Listen and repeat. On the whole. Focus on the intradental. That. And focus on the diphthong O in whole. On the whole. On the whole. Here are some good synonyms for this expression. In general or overall. On the whole, the in-person class is likely to offer a more memorable and rewarding language learning experience. Overall, traditional offline classes are usually more engaging, more fun and memorable. For number twenty-eight, please write down the expression. On the whole. How do you spell whole? It's W-H-O-L-E. Write the translation. And write the two synonyms. In general. G-E-N-E-R-A-L. And overall. O-V-E-R-A-L.
 29. Позволять, допускать, планировать, учитывать, обеспечивать, предусматривать. Это фразовый глагол, то есть глагол, состоящий из глагола и предлога, а также выражение, чтобы предусмотреть или обеспечить место либо возможность для чего-либо. Слышите и повторите. To allow for. To allow for something. Это фразовый глагол, to allow for. И это фразовый глагол, чтобы предусмотреть или чтобы обеспечить место либо возможность для чего-либо. So as to allow room for something. To allow for means to consider or to think about something when planning. So as to allow room for something means to plan, so there is extra space or so that there is extra amount for something. Here are some examples. Online learning allows for more flexibility in terms of scheduling. When scheduling an online lesson, it's important to allow for, unexpected internet connection disruptions and plan your time accordingly. Thirty. Прилагательные гибкие, а также однокоренные слова, наречие гибко, существительная гибкость, способность легко меняться. И два словосочетания. Первое это гибкий подход либо способ решения с учетом изменений. И второе словосочетание, гибкий график. Listen and repeat. Flexible. Flexible is an adjective. The adverb is flexibly. Это наречие, гибко. Flexibly. The noun is flexibility. Гибкость. Flexibility. And the expression is a flexible approach. Гибкий подход или способ решения. Focus on the diphthong. О. Рожь. Апрожь. A flexible approach. A flexible schedule. Flexible means able to bend easily without breaking or able to change easily according to the situation. Flexibly means in a way that can change or adapt easily. And the noun flexibility is the ability to change or adapt easily. A flexible approach is a way of doing things that can change to meet different needs. A flexible schedule is a plan or timetable that can change or be moved to fit different situations. Another disadvantage of offline courses is that they are less flexible in terms of scheduling. Another disadvantage is that offline classes have less flexible schedules, so it's not always possible to find a time which works for you personally. A one-on-one online lesson, on the other hand, can be scheduled when it is convenient for both the student and the teacher. This flexibility makes it easy to fit multiple lessons into your schedule. Прилагательная удобный подходящий. Неудобный, непрактичный. Однокоренное наречие. Удобно подходящим образом. Однокоренное существительное. Удобство, польза. Словосочетание, которое означает современные удобства. Удобства или объекты, инфраструктуры. Это специальное оборудование или помещение. И еще одно словосочетание, означающее магазин у дома, круглосуточный магазин или мини-маркет. Слышать и повторить. Convenient. Это аджектик. Вопреки convenient, это инконвиниент. Наречие, это удобно подходящий. Conveniently. And the noun. Удобство, польза. Convenience. Современные удобства. Modern conveniences. Это объекты, инфраструктуры, специальное оборудование или помещение. Modern conveniences. А также convenience facilities. Once again, it's convenience facilities. И магазин у дома или мини-маркет, круглосуточный магазин. A convenience store. A convenience store. Convenient means easy to use or helpful. Inconvenient means not easy to use or causing problems. Conveniently, the adverb, means in a way that is easy or helpful. A convenience, the noun, is something that makes life easier or more comfortable. Modern conveniences are features or devices that make life nowadays easier. Convenience facilities are services or equipment that make a place comfortable. And a convenience store is a small shop where you can buy everyday things near home. Here are some examples. A drawback of offline classes is that they are usually not as convenient as online classes. If you choose to take an offline class, you won't be able to change the time of your lessons and you'll have to stick to a schedule. One-on-one online lessons, on the other hand, can be scheduled when it is convenient for both the student and the teacher. If you choose to take online lessons, you'll be able to schedule lessons when it is convenient for you. Please write down the expression convenience facilities. How do you spell convenience? It's convenience. And the word facilities is spelled as facilities. Convenience facilities. Write down the translation. This is a special equipment or a specially equipped room.
